AND
WELCOME TO TODAY'S MEETING
OF THE ENTIRE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES ON WEDNESDAY,
MARCH 19TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
JUST SO EVERYONE KNOWS THIS
MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST LIVE
ON C10 CABLE CHANNEL 16 AT
CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND ONLINE
AT EIGHT TO WATCH GTN TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT TODAY PLEASE
CALL TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE AN INTERMEETING AND
NINE ONE NINE EIGHT SIX SEVEN
THREE ONE FOUR FIVE WITH THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO BEGIN WITH ROLL
CALL LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
KENNEDY WILL GO AROUND AND WHEN
SHE CALLS YOUR NAME PLEASE
UNMUTED AND SAY YOUR NAME AND
WHERE YOU'RE COMING FROM TODAY
JUST ONE SECOND FOR GLUTTING IN
THE LAST FEW PEOPLE.
>> NO PROBLEM.
THANK YOU.
NO PROBLEM
.
HI EVERYONE.
COUNCIL MEMBER GOOD AFTERNOON
ALREADY I THINK I HAVE EVERYONE
SO I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD AND DO
ROLL CALL CHAIR DAMON.
>> YES.
GOOD AFTERNOON THIS CHAIR ZACH
DAMON I'M COMING TO YOU FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
WASHTENAW THANK YOU MR.
QUILLER.
ALL RIGHT.
>> I'M COMING TO YOU FROM YOUR
SIDE OF YOUR ANALYSIS WARD IN
MY CLOGGER.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER MOSAIC.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON, KATHLEEN.
>> IS THAT CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN?
WASHTENAW COUNTY, THANK
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON SOLOMON,
COMMISSIONER ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER HAWKINS
,COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE, ALEX
GOSSAGE COMMISSIONER CALLING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
RACLETTE ANITA RADCLYFFE
COMMISSIONER CALLING IN FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
PACARD COMMISSIONER PACARD
COMING TO YOU FROM THE SUNNY
WINDY SIDE OF AN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH,
COMMISSIONER BEWES COMMISSIONER
INCAVIGLIA COMMISSIONER KONRAD
HIGH COMMISSIONER ARNICA CONRAD
CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN AND COUNCIL MEMBER
KATSINA ONE EVERYONE COUNCIL
MEMBER HHC EDWYN CALLING FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ZACH ROCKHALL IS COMPLETE.
>> THANK YOU KENNEDY.
I'M NEXT MOVING TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I JUST WANTED TO OPEN IT UP TO
THE COMMUNITY.
DIDN'T KNOW IF ANYBODY WAS ON
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
IF YOU ARE, PLEASE LET US KNOW
NOW OR LET KENNEDY KNOW AND
KNOW THAT YOU WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO SPEAK.
>> KENNEDY DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT TODAY AS A
SHOW OF HANDS?
IS THERE ANYONE HERE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A PUBLIC COMMENT
SAYING NONE THAT WE HAVE NO
PUBLIC COMMENT AND WE HAVE NO
ONE IN LINE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT?
>> OK, THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
AT NEXT WE MOVE TO THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S AGENDA.
EVERYONE SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED
AN ELECTRONIC COPY OF THE
AGENDA FOR REVIEW, WANTED TO
OPEN IT UP TO ANY COMMENTS ON
THE AGENDA NOW IF THERE ARE
COMMENTS OR EDITS, IS THERE A
MOTION TO APPROVE TODAY'S
AGENDA?
THIS IS COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE
MOVE TO APPROVE TODAY'S AGENDA.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
IS THERE A SECOND?
ALL RIGHT.
I GUESS THE VERY SECOND OK,
I'LL READ ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING TODAY'S AGENDA
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I AM
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
TODAY'S AGENDA IS APPROVED NEXT
WE HAVE TO APPROVAL OF THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM FEB.
NINETEENTH AGAIN THOSE SHOULD
BE INCLUDED WITHIN GENERAL
MATERIALS.
IF ANYBODY HAS ANY QUESTION
COMMENTS ON THOSE, PLEASE FEEL
FREE TO MENTION THEM NOW.
OTHERWISE IS THERE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES
FROM FEBRUARY UNTIL SHORTLY?
>> THANK YOU, LARRY.
IS THERE A SECOND?
I WILL SECOND.
THANK YOU, ALEX.
IF IT'S ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM FEBRUARY
PLEASE.
I NEED AND SAY I I I THANK YOU
.
THE MEETING MINUTES ARE
APPROVED NEXT WE MOVE ON TO THE
CITY PERSONNEL REPORT WITH
KENNEDY COMING KENNEDY GOOD
AFTERNOON.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON, EVERYONE.
I'M JUST GOING TO BE REALLY
BRIEF.
I DO NOT HAVE ANY UPDATES AT
THIS TIME.
HOWEVER, AS A REMINDER, IF YOU
HAVE NOT DONE YOUR
REAPPOINTMENT TO THE
COMMISSIONER, PLEASE LET ME
KNOW THE DEADLINE HAS PASSED
BUT THEY'VE EXTENDED IT FOR
THOSE WHO NEED MORE TIME.
I BELIEVE EVERYONE HAS.
BUT IF I'M MISSING ANYONE,
PLEASE LET ME KNOW AND WITH
THAT I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAVE
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
AND YES, IF THERE ARE ANY
COMMISSIONERS OUT THERE HAVE
QUESTIONS ON THAT PROCESS,
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO REACH OUT
TO KENNEDY.
AND IF YOU CAN'T GET A HOLD
OF KENNEDY MYSELF AND WE WE CAN
FACILITATE THAT NEXT.
MOVING ON TO THE CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE'S WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
GAZY EDWIN I THINK YOU SAID
THIS IS COUNCIL MEMBER HGC
HADWIN SOME UPDATES I'M JUST
TRYING TO LOOK THROUGH.
I BELIEVE THAT I FORWARDED THE
CR MANAGEMENT'S STUDY FROM THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
THE EIGHTY ACRE MANAGEMENT
STUDY AND THAT WAS CIRCULATED
SO IT'S ONGOING MAKING SURE
THAT CURBS ARE ACCESSIBLE ALSO
VALUATING PARKING I BELIEVE BUT
I THINK IT WOULD BE GOOD IF WE
TOOK A LOOK AT THAT AND IF YOU
GUYS HAVE QUESTIONS LET ME KNOW
AND THEN I CAN DIRECT THEM TO
MORAT THOMPSON AT THE DENHA ANY
QUICK ANY QUESTIONS NOW?
>> YEAH, THIS IS A CHAIR DAMON.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU
FOR FORWARDING THAT
INFORMATION.
I DID TAKE A QUICK SCAN.
NOTHING IN DEPTH YET AT THIS
TIME BUT I JUST WANTED TO THANK
YOU THE COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
FORWARDING THAT TO US AND YEAH,
DEFINITELY GRATEFUL FOR ALL THE
WORK THAT THEY'RE DOING THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I WILL GET IT AGAIN BEFORE
MY NEXT MEETING TO SORRY.
>> WHAT WAS THAT LARRY?
>> BEFORE THE NEXT MEETING TO
ME I THINK THEY WERE THINKING
ABOUT PRESENTING THAT AT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
MEETING TO THAT SOME OTHER
GROUP SO RIGHT.
SO THEN YOU CAN ALSO COME AND
SHARE AN UPDATE AS WELL BUT
YEAH THAT WOULD BE GREAT AND
YOU KNOW I TALK TOMORROW AND I
SAID JUST AS YOU'RE DOING THE
CREW MANAGEMENT STUDY OR MAYBE
AS YOUR YOU KNOW, SHE'S ALSO
MADE AN EFFORT TO ADD
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES WHEN
WE ASK FOR IT.
REMEMBER WHEN THEY HAVE
DOWNTOWN STREET CLOSURES AND WE
TALKED ABOUT THAT I TOLD HER I
SAID AS YOU'RE DOING STUFF LIKE
THAT, JUST SEND ME UPDATES AND
I'LL SHARE IT WITH KODAI.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
YEAH, SO IN REGARDS TO OTHER
THINGS THERE WAS A QUESTION
ABOUT MILLER AVENUE AND BIKE
LANES.
IT WAS FORWARDED TO ME BY LAURA
ALTUN I BELIEVE IT CAME FROM
ONAGA KIND OF GOOD IS ONAGA ON
THE PHONE RIGHT NOW?
YEAH, I'M HERE.
HI MONICA.
DO YOU WANT TO TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE QUESTION YOU HAD
AND I ASKED HER FOR SOME
INFORMATION SO I CAN PROVIDE
THAT SO I HAD SOME QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE IT'S CALLED MILLER
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
>> YES, AND SO THE PROJECT
SEEMS SO IT'S STARTING SOON
ACTUALLY STARTING NEXT WEEK.
SO I WISH I HAD KIND CAUGHT
WIND OF IT EARLIER BUT I HAD
SOME QUESTIONS REGARDING HOW
EXACTLY IT IS BEING APPROACHED
WITH ACCESSIBILITY IN MIND.
SO THE PROJECT IS GOING TO
INCLUDE UPDATING MILLER WITH
WHAT THEY'RE CALLING AN ALL
AGES AND ABILITIES BIKE LANE
AND I LOOKED THROUGH THE
PROJECT SITE AND I WATCH THE
INFORMATIONAL VIDEO AND IT JUST
ISN'T REALLY CLEAR TO ME WHAT
THEY MEAN BY ALL ABILITIES FOR
A BIKE LANE.
>> I DID I DID ASK ABOUT THAT
AND SHE SAID ALL ABILITIES WAS
IN REFERENCE TO THE CYCLISTS
DIFFERENT MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION.
>> SO NOT ENOUGH NOT SPECIFIC.
I MEAN IT CAN ENCOMPASS
ACCESSIBILITY CONCERNS AND
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES BUT
REALLY ABOUT THE CYCLISTS.
OK, SO THAT CLARIFIES THINGS.
BUT THEN I WAS ALSO WONDERING
IF THE PROJECT INCLUDED ANY ADA
UPDATES LIKE IT SEEMS TO
PRIORITIZE PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE BUT IT JUST
WASN'T CLEAR TO ME LIKE HOW
EXACTLY IT WILL ADDRESS
ACCESSIBILITY.
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I CAN REACH OUT TO TO PUBLIC
WORKS AND JUST ASK THAT I'M
SURE THEY'LL SAY SOMETHING LIKE
WILL COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS
AND WHATNOT BUT JUST MAKING
SURE THAT WE GET SOME SPECIFIC
INFORMATION.
YEAH, I THINK IS IS IMPORTANT
AND IT'S GOOD.
ONE THING THAT LAW ALSO
MENTIONED THAT THERE'S BEEN
SOME BUS STOP ISSUES AROUND
ACCESSIBILITY AND YOU SAID THAT
IS SOMETHING THAT WE SHOULD
CONTACT CHIPOLATA AROUND AND
MATTHEW CARPENTER, SO IF YOU
HAVE CONCERNS AROUND THAT I
THINK SENDING THEM TO ME AND
THEN I CAN RELAY THEM TO
MATTHEW AND THEN HAVING HIM
COME IN AND TALK TO US MIGHT BE
A GOOD NEXT STEP.
>> YEAH, I SPOKE DIRECTLY WITH
A ATIYEH ABOUT AT LEAST ABOUT
THE REROUTING DURING THE
PROJECT.
THEY SEEM TO HAVE FOUND A NEW
SOLUTION FOR THAT.
SO THAT'S GOOD BUT I'M NOT SURE
IF WHAT THE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
INCLUDES REGARDING MAKING THE
BUS STOPS LIKE PERMANENTLY MORE
ACCESSIBLE RIGHT.
>> I CAN ASK THAT.
OK,
THANK YOU.
THIS IS OH GO AHEAD LARRY.
ALSO WITH THE TRANSPORTATION
I'M HAVING TROUBLE FORWARDING
SOME THINGS BUT THE
TRANSPORTATION MEETING IS
TONIGHT OUR TRANSPORTATION
CONNECTION.
WE WE YOU CAN LOST THAT ON
COMMUNITY TV AND SEE WHAT
THEY'RE DOING.
YOU MIGHT GET SOME MORE
INFORMATION BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THAT A LOT TOO
AND ALSO YOU CAN GET THE NUMBER
AT THE BEGINNING IT CALL INTO
PUBLIC COMMENT IF YOU LIKE.
LET'S START AT SEVEN.
OK, NOT SURE I'LL BE ABLE TO
MAKE THAT BUT GOOD TO KNOW FOR
THE FUTURE.
YEAH THAT IS A SPECIAL AND
THAT'S WHAT IT DOES COME TO
THOSE.
YEAH.
AND LARRY, IF YOU EVEN WANT TO
ASK SPECIFIC SOME OF THOSE
QUESTIONS THAT WE WERE JUST
TALKING ABOUT AROUND LIKE IF
YOU KNOW IF THE MILLER
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT WILL MAKE
PERMANENT ACCESSIBILITY
IMPROVEMENTS TO BUS STOPS OR
WHAT DO YOU WHAT ARE THEY
PLANNING SPECIFICALLY AROUND
ACCESSIBILITY AND PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE BECAUSE IT
WASN'T SPECIFIED AND THEN I CAN
ALSO FOLLOW UP MOSADDEQ.
YES.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
I WANTED TO ADD ONE MORE LAYER
OF ADVOCACY TO THIS
CONVERSATION WITH REGARDS TO
'88.
THERE IS A LOCAL ADVISORY
COUNCIL THAT MEETS THE SECOND
TUESDAY OF EVERY MONTH AT 1:00
P.M. AND IT IS AN ATTENDANCE BY
THE CEO BUT ALSO IS CHAIRED BY
ANDREA HENRY AND THAT IS ALSO
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
PUBLIC TO ENGAGE DIRECTLY WITH
THE RIDE.
YEAH, THAT'S A GREAT FLAG AND I
THINK HAVING YOU KNOW, IF IT'S
OPEN AND THEY HAVE SEATS
AVAILABLE HAVING SOME OF OUR
COMMISSIONERS ON THAT WOULD BE
REALLY HELPFUL ESPECIALLY AS
WE'VE SEEN OVER THE LAST I
THINK SINCE COVID PARATRANSIT
IS SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
ANOTHER REOCCURRING KIND
OF CONCERN.
IT'S BEEN PARED DOWN DUE TO
FINANCIAL AND OTHER KIND
OF ISSUES BUT JUST US HAVING A
DIRECT CONNECTION TO THE STOCK
CURRENTLY LARRY KING IS ONE
OF THE MEN I'M CURRENTLY
AURICULAR IS A MEMBER OF THAT.
I ALSO PARTICIPATE MYSELF AND
IT'S ALWAYS OPEN TO ANYONE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO BECOME A MEMBER
THERE IN THE MIDDLE
OF ADJUSTING THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN EXECUTIVE AND
MEMBERSHIP.
SO THERE'S A THERE'S A
RECONFIGURING GOING ON BUT I
WOULD ENCOURAGE ANYONE WHO IS
INTERESTED.
YOU CAN ALSO ATTEND LIVIA'S ZOM
AND IF YOU GO TO THE RIDE TO
WORK AND GO TO ABOUT AND THEN
THERE IS THERE'LL BE A WHOLE
PLACE ABOUT THE L.A. SEE SO
THAT SHORT FOR A LOCAL ADVISORY
COUNCIL ALL THE INFORMATION
THAT ANYONE WOULD NEED WOULD BE
THERE AND HOW TO ACCESS A
MEETING WHAT THE LHC IS ABOUT
AND THOSE SORTS OF THINGS.
>> WELL FOR A COUPLE OF THESE
AREAS FOR PUBLIC COMMENT ON I
JUST WANTED TO POST REALLY
QUICKLY YOU ALL HAD SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT MILLER AND WE
ACTUALLY HAVE CYNTHIA HERE WHO
IS ACTUALLY THE TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEER FOR MILLER.
SO YOU WANTED TO GO AHEAD AND
ANSWER SOME QUESTIONS YOU GUYS
THAT GO CYNTHIA GOOD AFTERNOON,
EVERYONE.
>> I AM HERE FOR A DIFFERENT
PROJECT.
MARK, MY COLLEAGUE WILL BE
PRESENTING ON STATE STREET.
HOWEVER, SINCE I AM HERE I AM
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE MILLER
PROJECT WHEN A FIRST QUESTION I
HEARD WAS ABOUT THE DESIGNATION
OF ALL AGES AND ABILITIES
REGARDING CYCLING
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT IS A TERM
OF ART AND IN DESIGN FOR
CYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE AND IT
REFERS TO OUR APPLYING DESIGN
PRINCIPLES THAT WILL REALLY BE
WELL SUITED FOR A VERY LARGE
PORTION OF THE CYCLING
POPULATION.
SO I DID WANT TO CLARIFY THAT
ANOTHER QUESTION I HEARD WAS
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE
ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES THAT ARE
PART OF THIS DESIGN AND FIRST
THING IS WE DO HAVE CROSSWALK
RAMPS THAT ARE BEING UPGRADED
AS PART OF THE CONSTRUCTION.
WE HAVE TWO DIFFERENT
SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS THAT
ARE BEING WORKED ON AND THOSE
ARE SEVENTH STREET AND
MILLERICK SEVENTH AND MILLER
MAPLE.
SO BOTH OF THOSE INTERSECTIONS
ARE RECEIVING UPGRADES TO GREEN
ACCESSIBLE PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS
ON BOARD.
WE ALSO HAVE SEVERAL FEATURES
THAT ARE BEING INSTALLED AS
PART OF THE BUS STOPS THAT ARE
ADJACENT TO THE CYCLE TRACK.
THERE ARE TWO SECTIONS WE HAVE
A SECTION WITH A VERY NARROW
BUFFER BETWEEN THE VEHICULAR
LANES AND THE CYCLING LANES AND
THEN WE HAVE A SECTION THAT IS
WEST OF NEWPORT THAT HAS A
WIDER BUFFER BETWEEN THE
CYCLING LANES AND THE VEHICULAR
LANES IN THE NARROW BUFFER
SECTION THE THE DESIGN WILL BE
SIMILAR TO THE DESIGN THAT YOU
SEE IN OTHER PLACES ON
KATHERINE AND MILLER WHERE WE
CURRENTLY HAVE BICYCLE CYCLE
TRACK LANES THAT ARE
COINCIDENTAL TO THE BUS STOPS.
SO WE HAVE CURB HEIGHT LOADING
ACROSS THE CYCLING TRACK AND
THE CYCLE TRACK IS REQUIRED TO
YIELD TO PEDESTRIAN ENDS AS
WELL AS TACTILE WAYFINDING AT
THOSE LOCATIONS AND WITH THE
WIDER BUFFER WE WILL HAVE A
FLOATING BOARDING ISLAND SO
THERE WILL BE A CROSSWALK FROM
THE SIDE OF THE ROAD ACROSS THE
SINGLE TRACK TO UPBRAIDING
ISLAND AND THAT WILL ALSO HAVE
TACKED ON WAYFINDING AS WELL.
GREAT.
THANK YOU, CYNTHIA.
YOU KNOW I ACTUALLY HAD A
MEETING WITH AARP RIGHT BEFORE
THIS MEETING AND THEY TALKED
ABOUT DOING A ACCESSIBLE WALK
THROUGH ACCESSIBLY WALK THROUGH
IN ANN ARBOR WHERE THEY HAD
SOME PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, WALKING
AROUND AND THEY MENTIONED THAT
SOME OF OUR CROSSWALKS WERE NOT
FULLY ACCESSIBLE, FOR EXAMPLE,
LIKE LIGHTS OR NOISE AND THEY
WERE TALKING ABOUT PEOPLE WHO
MAY HAVE A VISUAL DISABILITY.
SO I'M GLAD TO HEAR THAT THOSE
SORT OF FEATURES ARE BEING ARE
BEING MADE.
DO YOU KNOW IF IT'S PRETTY WIDE
SPREAD IN THE CITY THAT WE HAVE
CROSSWALKS OR OTHER PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT AREN'T KIND
OF UP TO ADA OR BEYOND ADA
STANDARDS?
WE WE HAVE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT
AS A VARIETY OF DIFFERENT
FEATURES AND THAT'S THE FIRST
THING TO ACKNOWLEDGE WHEN
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE SYSTEM AS
A WHOLE WHERE WE HAVE EXCELLED
IS IN MAKING SURE THAT OUR
RAMPS ARE ALWAYS UP TO ADA
COMPLIANCE WHENEVER WE'RE DOING
PROJECTS WE ALSO DO A PRETTY
GOOD JOB OF MAINTAINING OUR
SIDEWALKS AND IT'S NOT PERFECT
BUT WE DO HAVE A MAINTENANCE
PROGRAM BECAUSE WE HAVE THE
KNOWLEDGE THAT FUNDS SIDEWALK
MAINTENANCE.
WE ARE ROUTINELY EVALUATING FOR
HAZARDS AND DEVIATIONS IN THE
SIDEWALK THAT ARE OUTSIDE
OF COMPLIANCE CORRECTING THOSE.
SO THOSE ARE ALL THINGS THAT WE
DO REALLY, REALLY WE HAVE
ACCESSIBLE PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS
IN A LOT OF LOCATIONS, PLACES
WHERE WE'RE
A LITTLE BIT BEHIND
IN HAVING THOSE ACCESSIBLE
PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS IS ACTUALLY
DOWNTOWN BECAUSE THOSE SIGNALS
RUN AS FREE TIME SIGNALS FOR A
LONG TIME AND DID NOT HAVE
PUSHBUTTONS AND THAT IS AN AREA
WHERE WE ARE CATCHING UP AS WE
DO PROJECTS.
SO WE DO HAVE A SET ASIDE FOR A
BUDGET TO INSTALL ACCESSIBLE
PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS AND WE DO
INSTALL ACCESSIBLE PEDESTRIAN
SIGNALS PRETTY MUCH EVERY YEAR.
A LOT OF TIMES WE WILL DO THOSE
AS PART OF THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT SOMETIMES
THOSE IMPROVEMENTS ARE
COMPLETED SEPARATE AS PART OF A
REQUEST THAT COMES IN FROM THE
COMMUNITY.
BUT WE ALSO NEED TO
STRATEGICALLY LOOK FOR SOME
OF THOSE OPPORTUNITIES BECAUSE
FREQUENTLY WHEN YOU'RE
INSTALLING ACCESSIBLE
PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS AND
LOCATIONS WHERE THERE HAVE NOT
BEEN PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS IN THE
PAST, THE INFRASTRUCTURE IS NOT
SET UP TO PROVIDE THE
SEPARATION BETWEEN THE TWO
DIRECTIONS OF TRAVEL FOR THE
PUSHBUTTONS SO THERE CAN BE A
LOT OF PHYSICAL WORK THAT GOES
INTO BRINGING A LOCATION UP TO
COMPLIANCE WHILE WE'RE DOING
THAT.
BUT THOSE ARE OPPORTUNITIES
THAT WE ARE ROUTINELY LOOKING
FOR.
THANKS FOR THAT THAT
INFORMATION AND THAT'S GOOD FOR
US TO DO.
AND I THINK AS A COMMISSIONER
WE'VE TALKED BEFORE ABOUT LIKE
EVEN US GOING AND DOING A WALK
THROUGH OR WHATEVER WE CAN DO
TO ALSO KIND OF GATHER DATA OR
FLAG AREAS.
>> BUT THAT IS YOU KNOW, IT'S
GOOD TO KNOW THAT THERE'S
BUDGET SET ASIDE AND YOU ALL
ARE AWARE THAT IT'S A PRIORITY
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
ROUTINELY INCORPORATING INTO
PROJECTS.
WE DID HAVE A COUPLE OF STAFF
MEMBERS WHO WERE PART OF THE
ERP WALK THROUGH AND
IT WAS A
PROCESS WE DID HAVE SOME
INTERESTING INPUT AS PART
OF THAT BUT I DON'T WANT US TO
BOG THIS DOWN.
I'M SURE WE HAVE AN AGENDA TO
GET TO YOU.
>> CYNTHIA, IF ANYONE HAS ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS, FEEL FREE
TO SEND THEM MY WAY AND I AM
HAPPY TO PASS THEM ALONG.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, CANDY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH EVERYONE FOR
THE FEEDBACK ON THAT AND THANK
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN
FOR YOUR REPORT.
NEXT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THE SPECIAL PRESENTATION
PORTION OF OUR AGENDA TODAY.
YOU KNOW, I'M VERY EXCITED TO
WELCOME MARK MCCULLOM AND HE'S
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE STATE
STREET DEVELOPMENT THAT'S GOING
ON.
AND MARK, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
BEING HERE TODAY.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE YOU AND
YOUR STAFF AND ALL YOUR HARD
WORK THAT'S GOING INTO THIS SO
THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
>> OH, THANK YOU, SIR AND THANK
YOU, FELLOW COMMISSIONER.
I'M NOT A FELLOW COMMISSIONER
BUT THANK YOU TO THE BOARD HERE
FOR INVITING ME GIVE YOU AN
OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN ABOUT THE
STATE STREET PROJECT, THE
LIMITS OF IT OF OUR FROM SOUTH
UNIVERS D TO EAST WILLIAM
STREET RIGHT IN THE HEART
OF THE UNIVERSE THE MICHIGAN
CAMPUS.
I'LL GO AHEAD AND SHARE MY
SCREEN IF ANYONE ALONG THE WAY
HAS QUESTIONS BY BY ALL MEANS
PLEASE STOP ME AND I CAN ANSWER
THEM AS BEST I CAN AND WE CAN
GO FROM THERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AGAIN I WANT TO ALSO LET YOU
ALL KNOW THAT IF YOU WOULD LIKE
A COPY OF THE PRESENTATION
BEING PRESENTED, I WILL FORWARD
IT TO YOU ALL AFTER THE
PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU AGAIN BEFORE BEFORE I
START, DO YOU JUST SEE THE
PRESENT HAITIAN OR DO YOU SEE
SOMETHING THAT SAYS NEXT SLIDE
OFF TO THE RIGHT WE SEE THE
NEXT SLIDE VERSION MARK, IF YOU
GET DOWN TO I THINK
PRESENTATION MODE IT SHOULD BE
ALL RIGHT.
I ALWAYS GET HUNG UP ON THIS.
MY APOLOGIES.
ANYONE KNOW HOW THE TOGGLE THE
SCREEN HERE I KNOW I SHOULD
KNOW THAT THAT SHOULD BE IN I
THINK IT'S IN IS IT IN DISPLAY
SETTINGS?
>> GLEAVE NOW WHAT DO YOU SEE?
THERE WE GO.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU GUYS.
THANK YOU ZACK.
>> OK, SO WHAT YOU SEE HERE IS
THE COVER SHEET TO THE
PRESENTATION NAME STATE STREET
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT FOR THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
DATED MARCH 19TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND IN THE
LOWER RIGHT HAND CORNER IS A
PICTURE OF STATE STREET IN THE
SUMMERTIME AS TODAY WITH PEOPLE
CROSSING IN THE EXISTING
CROSSWALK PRETTY CLOSE TO UNION
HALL WITH ATIYEH BUS STOPPED
FOR PEOPLE CROSSING THE
ROADWAY.
>> SO THE PROJECT PRESENTATION
AS THIS SLIDE READS WE'RE GOING
TO TALK ABOUT THE CITY GOALS
WITH VISION ZERO AND
CARBON NEUTRALITY.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE DESIGN
CONSIDERATION FOR ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES FOR THE BIKE LANE AND
THE PEDESTRIAN SIDEWALK AND THE
BUS STOPS.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE PROJECT
AREA FOR STATE STREET
IMPROVEMENTS.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE DESIGN
LAYOUT AND CROSS SECTION
DETAILS WE'LL TOUCH ON ON
STREET PARKING NEAR THE END
WE'LL TALK ABOUT VEHICULAR AND
PEDESTRIAN DETOUR WHILE
CONSTRUCTION IS ONGOING.
WE TALK ABOUT WHO THE PROJECT
WILL LIKELY BE AWARDED TO BY
CITY COUNCIL IN THE TIMELINE.
SO THAT PROJECT AND THEN IF
THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS IN THE
END WE CAN PROVIDE A SUMMARY
AND WE CAN ANSWER I CAN ANSWER
THOSE QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
>> SO SLIDE THREE HERE AS IT
SHOWS HERE IT READS TOPIC CITY
GOALS ONE IS VISIONS ZERO AND
THE CITY COUNCIL HAS DECLARED
THAT BY 2025 NO ONE DIES OR IS
SERIOUSLY INJURED IN CRASHES ON
A ANN ARBOR STREET.
SO THAT WAS A VERY PARTICULAR
ITEM FOR THIS PROJECT THAT WE
WANT TO STRIVE FOR VISION ZERO
FOR ALL USERS ON THIS ROADWAY
NOT JUST FOR CARS BUT FOR THE
PEDESTRIANS AND THE CYCLISTS AS
WELL ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE
SLIDE IT READS
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY TWENTY
TWENTY THREE OUR TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM CONTRIBUTES ZERO
EMISSIONS TOWARDS CLIMATE
CHANGE.
>> SO ONE OF THE FEATURES WITH
THIS PROJECT WILL INCLUDE
TRANSIT WHICH I'LL GET INTO SO
THAT WILL DEFINITELY HELP AIM
TOWARDS THAT CARBON NEUTRALITY
GOAL ON SLIDE FOUR IT READS
DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR ALL
AGES AND ABILITIES AND WHAT IT
PRESENTS IS FOUR DIFFERENT
PICTURES IN THE COLLAGE MODE
DEMONSTRATING THE TYPES
OF USERS THAT ARE GOING TO THAT
USE STATE STREET TODAY AND WILL
CONTINUE TO BE USING STATE
STREET AFTER WE ENHANCE IT WITH
THESE FEATURES I THINK I'VE
BEEN AROUND CIVIL ENGINEERING
NOW FOR TWENTY SEVEN YEARS AND
THE PEOPLE WHO TAUGHT ME THINGS
BACK IN THE 1990S EVERYTHING
WAS FOCUSED, VERY CAR CENTRIC
AND SINCE THEN I'VE LEARNED AND
EMBRACED THAT THE WORLD IS MORE
THAN JUST CARS AND WE NEED TO
START THINKING ABOUT HOW CAN WE
MAKE ENVIRONMENT MORE FRIENDLY
FOR THE OTHER USERS NOT JUST
THE CARS TO GET FROM POINT A TO
POINT B.
SO THERE'S A PHOTO HERE OF A
GENTLEMAN ON HIS BICYCLE, A
COUPLE WALKING THEIR DOG ALONG
THE WEST SIDE OF STATE STREET,
ANOTHER PEDESTRIAN CROSSING IN
THE CROSSWALK AND A PERSON IN A
WHEELCHAIR ACROSS THE STREET
FROM THE U.
THEM AT THE BUS STOP LOADING
ONTO U OF M BUS MOVING ON TO
SLIDE NUMBER FIVE IT READS THE
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN.
>> SO THIS IS THE BOOK THAT WE
USED THE GUIDANCE THAT WE USE
AS PART OF THIS PROJECT THE
SLIDE FURTHER READS IT'S A TIER
ONE CORRIDOR SO THAT'S STATE
STREET WITH THE STATE STREET AT
SOUTH UNIVERSAL, THE
INTERSECTION BEING A TIER ONE
INTERSECTION.
>> SO BASICALLY WHAT THAT MEANS
IS THAT THESE ARE HIGHTON AREAS
WHERE THE CITY HAS MADE IT AN
IMPORTANCE THAT WE NEED TO STEP
UP ITS FEATURES SHOULD AND NEED
TO BE INCORPORATED INTO THE
PROJECT SCOPE WHEN TIER ONE
PROJECT IS IDENTIFIED SUCH AS
STATE STREET AND WE CAN GET
INTO THAT IN A MOMENT.
>> IT FURTHER READS TARDE
TARGETS STRATEGIES WILL INCLUDE
TO BUILD SAFE COMFORTABLE BIKE
ROUTES, MAKE INTERSECTION SAFER
AND EASIER, COULD BE IN
COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS
WITH DISABILITIES ACT PARTNER
WITH MOBILITY SERVICE PROVIDERS
AND IMPROVE TRANSIT RELIABILITY
AND SPEED AND THEN THE IMAGE
OFF TO THE RIGHT IS A PICTURE
OF THE COVER OF THE ANN ARBOR
MOVING TOGETHER COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
>> OK, MOVING ON TO SLIDE
NUMBER SIX THE SLIDE READS
PROJECT AREA SO THIS
INCORPORATES S UNIVERSITY
AVENUE TO THE S TO EAST WILLIAM
STREET WHICH IS ROUGHLY POINT
TO MILE AND LENGTH STATE STREET
IS IS CLASSIFIED AS A MAJOR
ROADWAY AS OPPOSED TO A MINOR
ROADWAY.
>> IT IS BOUND BY THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CAMPUS
AND IT IS A TRANSIT CORRIDOR
FOR BOTH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND TO THE PROJECT
SCOPE READS TO BE WE'RE GOING
TO REPLACE THE TWO DIFFERENT
WATER MAINS AND CONSOLIDATED
INTO ONE WATER MAIN INTO THE
ROADWAY.
THE STORM MANAGEMENT PLAN WILL
BE IMPLEMENTED AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT FOR INFILTRATION.
>> THE SURFACE PAVEMENT WILL BE
REMOVED AND REPLACED WITH NEW
ASPHALT.
THE SURFACE OF THE CROSS
SECTION WILL PROVIDE
PROTECTED
BIKE LANES.
THERE'LL BE INTERSECTION
IMPROVEMENTS BOTH TO WILLIAM
AND SOUTH UNIVERSITY DIFFERENT
TYPES OF IMPROVEMENTS AND I'LL
GET TO THAT IN THE MOMENT.
>> THERE WILL BE TWO RAISED
CROSSWALKS MID BLOCK BETWEEN
THE TWO INTERSECTIONS AND THERE
IS GOING TO BE A NORTHBOUND
TRANSIT LANE JUST FOR THE
BUSSES TO PROVIDE BETTER
EFFICIENCY TO ON THE RIGHT HALF
OF THE SCREEN HERE IS AN AERIAL
IMAGE OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN PROJECT.
THERE IS A RED DASH LINE GOING
FROM SOUTH UNIVERSITY TO EAST
WILLIAM STREET MARKING THE
LIMITS OF THE PROJECT
.
>> OK, SO WHAT I'M GOING TO DO
NOW IS ON SLIDE SEVEN AND GIVE
OR TAKE ME TEN SLIDES HERE I'M
GOING TO BREAK THIS DOWN TO
BITE SIZES AS FAR AS WHAT THE
PROJECT SCOPE ENTAILS USING
PICTURES AND WORDS SO THAT THE
SLIDE READS ON TOP DESIGN
LAYOUT S UNIVERSITY.
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT AN AERIAL
IMAGE OF SOUTH UNIVERSITY AT
ST. STREET NORTH IS POINTING TO
THE RIGHT OF YOUR SCREEN HERE
OFF TO THE LEFT IS A LEGEND.
NOT EVERY COLOR APPLIES TO
EVERY SINGLE SLIDE.
>> THIS LEGEND CAME FROM A
LARGER IMAGE THAT INCORPORATED
FROM THE BEGINNING TO THE
ENDING.
SO WHAT WILL WHAT I WANT TO
POINT HERE IS OR QUESTION I
THOUGHT MAYBE SOMEONE WAS
FORGIVE ME IF SOMEONE WAS
SPEAKING.
ALL RIGHT.
SO INTERSECTION YEAH.
SORRY THAT WAS ON ME.
SO THE INTERSECTION BEING A
TIER ONE ONE OF THE THINGS WE
WANT TO ACCOMPLISH IS TO MAKE
THE CROSSING DISTANCES AS SHORT
AS POSSIBLE WITHOUT INTERFERING
WITH EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT TIMES
TRUCK ROUTE OR A FIRE TRUCK
ROUTE TO BE ABLE TO GET THROUGH
THAT INTERSECTION.
>> SO HOW WE WERE ABLE TO DO
THAT THROUGH THE DESIGN PHASE
WAS IF YOU LOOK AT THE IF YOU
ENVISION THE NORTH CORNER, GET
MY BEARINGS RIGHT HERE.
>> THAT RADIUS IS GOING TO
SHRINK SO IT'S GOING TO GET
CLOSER TO THE TO THE CENTER
OF THE INTERSECTION SO THE
CROSSING DISTANCE BECOMES
SHORTER FOR PEDESTRIANS, WHICH
IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THE
EXPOSURE TIME OF THEM WITH
TRAFFIC IS REDUCED.
>> SO THAT'S HOW WE'RE
ADDRESSING THAT THE TIER ONE
INTERSECTION DESIGN AS PART
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THERE
IS ALREADY BIKE LANES PROTECTED
BIKE LANES THAT EXIST TO THE
SOUTH OF THE INTERSECTION SOUTH
OF SOUTH UNIVERSITY AND THAT
BIKE LANE WILL CONTINUE THROUGH
THE DASHT GREEN LANES.
THERE ARE DOTS YOU SEE THEY'RE
GOING TO THE BIKE LANE BEHIND
THE BACK A CURB.
>> I'M GOING TO GET A LITTLE
BIT AHEAD OF MYSELF HERE BUT
JUST PUT A FOOTNOTE HERE THE
BIKE LANE ON THE WEST SIDE
OF THE ROADWAY IS IN THE
EXISTING ROADWAY TODAY MEANING
IT WILL BE PARALLEL TO THE FACE
THE CURB, THE BIKE WAY THE BIKE
LANE ON THE EAST SIDE OF THE
ROADWAY IS SOMETIMES IN THE
ROAD, SOMETIMES OFF OF THE
ROAD.
AND THE REASON FOR THAT IS AS
WE GO THROUGH THE SLIDES
THERE'S THREE OR FOUR MATURE
TREES NEAR THE DIAG THAT
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN WAS VERY
SAID.
ABSOLUTELY.
THOSE TREES HAVE TO SAY STAY
WITHOUT BEING HARMED AND WE
AGREED WITH THAT.
>> SO IN ORDER TO ACCOMPLISH
THAT WE HAD TO TAKE THE BIKE
WAY BIKE LANE OFF OF THE
ROADWAY AND PUT IT BEHIND THE
TREES SO THAT WE WOULD NOT HARM
THOSE TREES.
>> SO JUST A LITTLE FOOTNOTE
THERE ARE.
ALL RIGHT, MOVING ON TO SLIDE
EIGHT IT READS THE DESIGN
LAYOUT MICHIGAN UNION BUILDING
AGAIN THE LEGEND OFF TO THE
LEFT AND THE AERIAL IMAGE THAT
IS PRESENT IS WHAT WILL BE SEEN
IN FRONT OF THE MICHIGAN UNION
MUSEUM OF ART ON THE EAST SIDE
MICHIGAN UNIONS ON THE WEST
SIDE MUSEUM OF ART IS ON THE
EAST SIDE.
>> SO MOVING FROM LEFT TO RIGHT
OF THE SCREEN THERE I'M GOING I
GOT THAT BACKWARDS MOVING TOP
TO BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN YOU'LL
HAVE THE SIDEWALK THAT'S
CURRENTLY THERE ACROSS THE
FRONTAGE OF THE MICHIGAN UNION
BUILDING.
THEN YOU'LL HAVE KURBAN GODOR
AND THEN THERE IS A PROTECTED
BIKE LANE THAT IS GOING TO BE
WORKING IN UNISON WITH A BUS
STOP PLATFORM THAT IS SHADED IN
A LIGHT BLUE.
>> THAT BUS STOP IS TO THIS DAY
GOING TO ONLY BE USED BY TRIPLE
A T A THAT BUS STOP DOES EXIST
TODAY BUT IT IS GOING TO BE
ENHANCED WHERE THERE'S NOT
GOING TO BE INTERACTION.
>> WELL, LET ME REPHRASE THAT.
THERE'S GOING TO BE LIMITED
INTERACTION BETWEEN PEOPLE
LOADING ONTO THE BUS AND TO
BIKERS THAT ARE CURRENTLY USING
THE ROADWAY TODAY.
SO THEY'RE NOT GOING THEY'RE
GOING TO GO BETWEEN THE
SIDEWALK AND THE BUS PLATFORM.
THIS IS A NATIONAL STANDARD
THAT'S BEEN IMPLEMENTED TO
ENHANCE SAFETY AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE WITHOUT HAVING TO
INTERACT WITH TRAFFIC AND TO
MINIMIZE CONFLICT POINTS WITH
PEDESTRIANS.
THE TWO TRAVEL LANES NORTHBOUND
AND SOUTHBOUND WILL STILL EXIST
AS IT IS TODAY AND THEN YOU
START SEEING HERE IN RED A
TRANSIT ONLY LANE.
SO THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WAS UP BECAME A PARTNER IN THIS
PROJECT IN THAT THEY WANTED TO
ENHANCE AND INCREASE THEIR
EFFICIENCY RATES TO GET FROM
POINT A TO POINT B.
>> SO IN ORDER TO DO THAT THEY
FELT LIKE WELL IT'S WORTH
INVESTING MONEY INTO A BUS ONLY
LANE SO THAT THEY DO NOT HAVE
TO HAVE HIGH DWELL TIMES WHEN
THEY WAIT FOR THE RED SIGNAL AT
EAST WILLIAM STREET MORE TO
COME ON THAT IN A MOMENT THE
BIKE THEY HAVE THE CURB AND
GUTTER ON THE EAST SIDE OF THE
ROADWAY AND THEN THE BIKE LANE
IN THIS CASE STARTS BEHIND THE
BACK CURB THEN GOES INTO THE
ROADWAY BEFORE ON THE TOP TO
THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE SCREEN
OF THE AERIAL IMAGE IS ONE
OF THE TWO ELEVATED WELL RAISED
CROSSWALKS AND THAT'S GOING TO
BE ABOUT SIX INCHES.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE PRETTY
CLOSE TO WHAT YOU WOULD SEE FOR
A SPEED HUMP THAT WOULD BE IN A
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
NOT QUITE, BUT IT KIND OF GIVES
YOU A VISUAL WHAT'S WHAT IT
LOOK AND FEEL LIKE AND THEN
YOU'LL HAVE THE SIDEWALK THAT'S
CURRENTLY THERE ON THE EAST
SIDE OF THE ROADWAY.
>> THIS IS A CROSS SECTIONAL
IMAGE THAT YOU'RE LOOKING AT
FOR SLIDE NUMBER NINE.
IT READS THE CROSS SECTION
MICHIGAN UNION AND INSTEAD
OF LOOKING AT IT AERIALLY IT
GIVES YOU WHAT IT WOULD LOOK
LIKE GOING FROM SOUTH TO NORTH.
>> SO THERE'S THE SIDEWALK
ALONG THE OF EVENTS UNION SIDE
THE PROTECTED BIKE LANE, THE
THE BUS PLATFORM TO LOAD ONTO
THE BUS FROM EIGHTY-EIGHT GOING
SOUTHBOUND, THE SOUTHBOUND AND
NORTHBOUND.
>> THE KILLER LANES AND THEN
THE TRANSIT ONLY LANE THAT IS
PROTECTED BY THE PLASTIC
DELINEATOR IS SIMILAR TO WHAT
YOU WOULD SEE FOR PROTECTED
BIKE LANE.
THEN THERE'S GOING TO BE A
LITTLE BUFFER THREE FOOT BUFFER
SPACE BETWEEN THE TRANSIT LANE
AND THE SIX FOOT WIDE BIKE LANE
CURB AND GUTTER AND THEN THE
SIDEWALK ALONG THE EAST SIDE OR
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
MUSEUM OF ART SIDE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NOW I'M GOING TO JUMP TOO CLOSE
TO THE MIDDLE OF THE PROJECT.
THE SLIDE TEN TO TOP IS DESIGN
LAYOUT ANGEL HALL MUSEUM OF ART
.
SO WE HAVE AGAIN THE LEGEND OFF
TO THE LEFT AND ON THE RIGHT
SIDE A LOT OF THESE FEATURES
WILL BE SIMILAR BUT DIFFERENT
AS WE GO THROUGH THEM AGAIN ON
THE WEST SIDE WILL HAVE THE
SIDEWALK, THE CURB AND GUTTER
SIX FOOT WIDE PROTECTED BIKE
LANE WITH THE TWO FOOT BUFFER
YOU'LL HAVE THE SOUTHBOUND AND
NORTHBOUND TRAVEL LANES WITH
THE NORTHBOUND, SAYS Q JUMP
HERE.
>> I'LL GET IN THAT A MINUTE
BUT JUST WE'LL CALL IT THE
TRANSIT LANE FOR NOW AND RIGHT
NOW GOING NORTHBOUND THERE ARE
TWO BUS STOPS ONE NEAR SOUTH
UNIVERSITY, ONE NEAR EAST
WILLIAM THE TWO U WITH THEM AND
AAA TO AA RTA HAVE AGREED TO
COMBINE THOSE INTO ONE BUS STOP
THAT IS IN BETWEEN THE MUSEUM
OF ART AND ANGEL HALL WITH A
PLATFORM SIMILAR TO WHAT'S
GOING TO BE PRESENT IN FRONT
OF THE UNION BUILDING SIMILAR
TO THE LAST SLIDE AND THE
SOUTHBOUND BUS STOP THE BIKE
LANE WILL GO BEHIND THAT
PLATFORM AND WHAT YOU'RE SEEING
HERE FOR THOSE THAT CAN THERE'S
A LITTLE PURPLE LINE THAT IS A
WHAT WE'RE CALLING A
TRAPEZOIDAL DELINEATOR.
IT'S A FAIRLY NEW INVENTION BUT
IT HAS BEEN VETTED IN AND
EMBRACED BY EXPERTS IN THE
COMMUNITY WHEREBY IT PROVIDES
DELINEATION BETWEEN THE BIKES
IN THIS CASE THE BIKES AND THE
SIDEWALK.
SO IF A SIGHTED PEDESTRIAN WERE
SLIDING THEY'RE WAVING THEIR
CAME BACK AND FORTH THEY WOULD
FEEL THAT TACTILE DELINEATOR
THAT'S RUNNING IN PURPLE THAT
WOULD SEPARATE THE SIDEWALK
FROM THE BIKE LANE AND IT ALSO
PROVIDES A VISUAL CUE TO THE
BIKERS TO STAY WITHIN THE BIKE
LANE AND NOT TRAVERSE OUTSIDE
OF THE
ONTO THE SIDEWALK.
>> HERE IS ON SLIDE 11 WHICH
READS CROSS SECTION ANGEL HALL
MUSEUM ART SIMILAR TO THE
PREVIOUS CROSS SECTION ON THE
WEST SIDE OF THE ROADWAY YOU
HAVE THE SIDEWALK CURB AND
GUTTER SIX FOOT WIDE BIKE LANE
WITH A TWO FOOT BUFFER
SOUTHBOUND LANE NORTHBOUND LANE
TRANSIT LANE AND THEN THE BUS
STOP WAS SHOWN ON THE PREVIOUS
SLIDE WITH THE BIKE LANE BEHIND
IN THE AERIAL VIEW IT WAS
PURPLE.
IN THIS VIEW IT IS YELLOW IS
THAT TRAPEZOIDAL DELINEATION
AND THEN YOU HAVE THE THE
SIDEWALK THAT'S RUNNING IN
FRONT OF ANGELA.
>> OK, CONTINUING NORTH SLIDE
12 READS THE DESIGN LAYOUT IN
FRONT OF THE TROTTER CENTER AND
THE DIAG MORE OR LESS I'M
CALLING IT THE DIAG.
WE'RE NOT QUITE THERE YET BUT
IT'S PRETTY CLOSE AGAIN AND OFF
TO THE LEFT AND THEN THERE'S AN
AERIAL IMAGE OF THE PROJECT.
>> SO THESE ARE THE THREE
MATURE TREES I WAS SPEAKING
OF THAT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
SAID PLEASE PLEASE WE DO NOT
WANT THESE TWENTY EIGHT TWENTY
AND TWENTY ONE INCH CALIPER
TREES GOING AWAY.
>> SO THIS IS WHERE YOU COULD
SEE BOTH THE BIKE LANE AND THE
SIDEWALK BEHIND THE GREEN SPACE
WHICH I'M CALLING THE NOW BACK
A BIT OF GREEN SPACE WHERE THE
TREE IS GOING TO BE.
>> SO THIS IS AN EXAMPLE WHERE
THAT BIKE LANE IS NOT INTO THE
ROADWAY AND THAT'S WHY WE HAD
TO DO THAT ON THE TOP OF THE
THE PICTURE.
>> SO THAT'S THE WEST SIDE.
YOU HAVE YOUR SIDEWALK AGAIN
CURB AND GUTTER BIKE LANE OFF
FOR SPACE SOUTHBOUND BIKE LANE
EXCUSE ME SOUTHBOUND VEHICLE
NORTHBOUND VEHICLE LANE
PROTECTED TRANSIT ONLY LANE AND
RED IN THIS CASE NOT YET THE
THE CURB AND GUTTER AND THEN
YOU HAVE THE GREEN BUFFER SPACE
THEN YOU HAVE THE BIKE LANE HE
TRAPEZOIDAL INITIATOR AND
PURPLE AND THEN THE SIDEWALK
AND THEN SLIDE 13 SHOWS
CROSS-SECTIONAL VIEW OF THE
SAME SPOT TROTTER CENTER AND
DIAG IT READS AT THE TOP WHERE
AGAIN ON THE WEST SIDE OF THE
ROADWAY FROM THE TROTTER CENTER
YOU HAVE YOUR SIDEWALK, YOUR
CURB AND GUTTER SOUTHBOUND
PROTECTED BIKE LANE WITH THE
BUFFER SPACE SOUTHBOUND
VEHICULAR LANE NORTHBOUND
VEHICULAR LANE PROTECTED
TRANSIT LANE CURB AND GUTTER
AND THE GREEN SPACE PROTECTING
THOSE EXISTING TREES.
THE BIKE LANE TREPROSTINIL
DELINEATOR AND YELLOW AS
REMOVING OVER TO THE RIGHT AND
THEN THE SIDEWALK WHERE THE
BEGINNING OF THE DIAG COMMENCES
OK AND SLIDE FOURTEEN IS NOW
LANDING ON WHAT WE'LL CALL THE
PROJECT ENDING POINT WHICH IS
THE EAST WILLIAMS STREET.
SO THE SLIDE READS DESIGN
LAYOUT EAST WILLIAM STREET
THERE'S A LEGEND OFF TO THE
SIDE AND THEN THERE ARE VARIOUS
IMAGES IN THE LOWER LEFT SPOT
THAT SHOW SIGNAL FAZING AND
MANY OF YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH
THE THREE TRADITIONAL PHASES
THE RED AND THE GREEN THAT YOU
SEE AT MOST TRAFFIC TRAFFIC
SIGNALS INTERSECTIONS WHAT'S
NOT FAMILIAR TO MANY OF US IS
THESE TRANSIT SIGNALS THAT ARE
ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THAT IMAGE
WHERE IT SAYS NO CARS, NO BUS
GO AND GO.
>> SO ONE OF THE REASONS THAT
THIS BEFORE I GET INTO THAT
IMAGE OFF TO THE RIGHT HERE AS
I WAS SPEAKING THAT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN WANTS TO INCREASE
THEIR EFFICIENCY RATES AS FAR
AS GETTING FROM POINT A TO
POINT B SO THEY CAN STAY ON
SCHEDULE.
>> THE PROBLEM THAT THEY
EXPERIENCED DAY AT NO FAULT
OF ANYONE IS THAT THERE IS
GRIDLOCK AT THAT EAST WILLIAM
INTERSECTION BECAUSE OF CARS
TURNING LEFT TO GO WESTBOUND ON
WILLIAM STREET.
>> ALL IT TAKES IS THE FIRST
CAR THAT WANTS TO TURN LEFT AND
EVERYONE THEN HAS TO WAIT FOR
THE NEXT SIGNAL CYCLE IN ORDER
TO POTENTIALLY PROCEED WHETHER
WEST OR NORTH TOWARDS NORTH
UNIVERSITY.
>> SO IN ORDER TO CIRCUMVENT
THAT HOW WE DESIGNED IT WAS TO
MODIFY THAT INTERSECTION
SLIGHTLY WHEREBY USING A SIGNAL
THAT YOU SEE IN THE LOWER LEFT
CORNER IT PROVIDES A CUE TO THE
BUS DRIVER THAT THE
INTERSECTION IS ALL CLEAR FOR
THEM TO PROCEED THROUGH THE
INTERSECTION BEFORE ANYONE ELSE
GETS A HEAD START.
>> SO THEY GET TO ESSENTIALLY
JUST TO CALL WHAT IT IS THEY
GET THE JUMP RIGHT TO THE HEAD
OF THE LINE.
>> SO A BAR THAT'S GOING FROM
HORIZON TO HORIZON WOULD BE
DON'T GO BUS DRIVER.
>> A BAR GOING UP AND DOWN
WOULD BE CARS.
>> NO.
AND THAT FRANKLY MOST PEOPLE IN
THE CAR AND YOU'RE GOING TO
KNOW OR SEE WHAT THIS IS BUT
THE BUS DRIVER WILL UNDERSTAND
THAT THAT MEANS FOR THEM TO GO
AND THEN THE NET THE FOLLOWING
PHASE IT WILL BE GO WITH THE
GREEN LIGHT.
>> SO WHEN ARE SECTIONS GREEN?
THE BUS CAN ALSO GO THROUGH THE
INTERSECTION WHEN IT'S CLEAR TO
DO SO.
>> THE AERIAL IMAGE OFF TO THE
RIGHT OF THE SCREEN SHOWS THE
INTERSECTION OF EAST WILLIAM
STREET AND STATE STREET WITH
NORTH OFF TO THE RIGHT.
SO YOU CAN SEE THERE THAT THE
RED TRANSIT LANE IS RUNNING
ALONG THE EAST FACE CURB AND WE
ARE MODIFYING THAT INTERSECTION
EVER SO SLIGHTLY OR THAT BUS
THAT WE WE CAREFULLY CALCULATED
THE DIMENSIONS OF IT COULD
MANEUVER THROUGH THAT
INTERSECTION EVEN IF THERE WERE
A CAR THAT'S PARKED STOPPED
WAITING ON THAT THAT SPOT
THAT'S CURRENTLY THERE TODAY
THAT X IS THERE OR THAT
INTERSECTION COULD BE CLEARED
FOR BUSSES TO SWING FROM GOING
EASTBOUND TO SOUTHBOUND ON
STATE STREET.
>> THEY NEED THAT EXTRA ROOM TO
BE ABLE TO CLEAR THAT MANEUVER
.
EVERYONE, YOUR FIVE MINUTE
MARK.
THANK YOU.
FIVE MINUTES.
VERY GOOD.
I'M ALMOST DONE SO THAT JUST
GIVES YOU AN INDICATION OF WHAT
THE THE PROJECT DESIGN IS
INCORPORATING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SLIDE FIFTEEN CAR DETOUR ROUTE
IT WILL ENCOMPASS HILL STREET,
FORREST AVENUE, WASHTENAW
AVENUE TO GETTIS TO NORTH
UNIVERSITY.
SO THAT IS JUST FOR THE CARS
THAT'S NOT FOR THE PEDESTRIANS.
>> THAT'S NOT FOR THE CYCLIST.
THAT'S WHAT THE AERIAL IMAGE
SHOWS IN YELLOW SLIDE SIXTEEN
GETS IS AN AERIAL IMAGE.
>> IT READS PEDESTRIAN DETOUR
OUT AND IT'S SHOWING HOW
TRAFFIC WILL BE DETOURED FOR
PEDESTRIANS ON THE EAST AND THE
WEST SIDE OF THE PROJECT.
>> WHAT YOU SEE ON THE BOTTOM
OF THE SCREEN THAT HATCHLING
THAT IS THE PROJECT CLOSE TO
TRAFFIC DURING CONSTRUCTION.
>> SO CARS ARE NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO GET IN AND OUT OF HERE
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF VERY POOR
PEOPLE THAT HAVE PERMISSION TO
DO SO AND FOR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT, THE REASON WHY THE
PEDESTRIAN ROUTE INSTEAD
OF GOING ALONG THE FACE
OF ANGEL HALL IN TANDEM WITH
THE MUSEUM OF ART, IT GOES
BEHIND IT TO THE EAST AND THE
BACK AROUND IS BECAUSE THERE'S
A ROOFING PROJECT THAT ON HALL
THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN ALL
SUMMER LONG.
SO THAT AREA IS GOING TO BE
BLOCKED OFF PEDESTRIANS FOR THE
CONTRACTOR TO WORK.
>> HENCE WHY THAT DETOUR ROUTE
HAS TO GO UP OVER IN THIS CASE
EAST BEFORE COMING BACK TO THE
EAST.
>> WILLIAM INTERSECTION SLIDE
17 IT READS THAT THE CONTRACT
WARD AND TIMELINE'S SO MCKENZIE
IS THE RECOMMEND CONTRACTOR TO
CITY HALL.
>> THE BID PRICE IS FIVE POINT
THREE MILLION DOLLARS.
THE PROJECT TO CONSTRUCTION
START DATE IS MAY 5TH OF THIS
YEAR THERE WILL BE A PROJECT
PAUSE THE WEEK OF ART FAIR
WHICH IS SCHEDULED FOR JULY
14TH THE 20TH.
SO BASICALLY THEY'RE GOING TO
TAKE EVERYTHING OUT OF THEIR
ART FAIR WILL COME IN, DO THEIR
REGULAR THING EVERY YEAR AND
THEN ONCE THEY'RE DONE
CONTRACTOR WILL BRING ALL THEIR
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS BACK
AND THEN THEY'LL START
COMPLETING THE WORK AFTER ART
FAIR AND THEY'LL GO PRETTY MUCH
THROUGH THE END OF NOVEMBER AND
WAY TRIM WILL PROVIDE
CONSTRUCTION ADMINISTRATION
ENGINEERING AND INSPECTION.
>> I WILL BE HEAVILY INVOLVED
IN THAT AND WE'LL ALSO BE ON
SITE FOR RESOURCE DURING
CONSTRUCTION.
>> SO IN SUMMARY, SLIDE 18 3D
TITLE STATE STREET IMPROVEMENT
SUMMARY TARGET CITY GOALS FOR
VISION ZERO AND
CARBON NEUTRALITY DESIGN FOCUS
ON USERS OF ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES.
THE PROJECT WILL MODERNIZE
OUTDATED CITY INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> IT WILL HAVE ENHANCEMENTS
INCLUDING PROTECTED BIKE LANES.
THE NORTHBOUND TRANSIT LANE BUS
STOP AND MID BLOCK RAISE
CROSSWALK THE RELOCATION
OF ON-STREET PARKING WILL BE
SOUGHT.
LET ME PAUSE THERE FOR A MINUTE
BEFORE I CONTINUE ALL SIXTY
NINE SPOTS THAT ARE USE THAT'S
MANAGED BY THE DDA ARE GOING TO
BE NOT THERE ANY LONGER ONCE
CONSTRUCTION IS IN ORDER TO FIT
THE TRANSIT LANE AND THE BIKE
LANES IN THERE.
THERE'S AN ONGOING STUDY BEING
CONDUCTED BY U OF M DENHA CITY
OF ANN ARBOR TO SEE WHERE SOME
OF THOSE SPOTS CAN BE RELOCATED
AROUND THE U OF M CAMPUS RIGHT
NOW IT'S NOT DEFINITIVE WHEN
THAT WILL OCCUR BUT IT'S AN
ONGOING SUBJECT BEING LOOKED AT
SLIDE FURTHER READS TEAR'S WILL
BE PROVIDED FOR ALL USERS
DURING CONSTRUCTION.
>> CONSTRUCTION WILL OCCUR
BETWEEN MAY AND NOVEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND THE
PROJECT WILL PAUSE FOR ART FAIR
IN JULY
TO THE LAST SLIDE JUST
READS QUESTIONS WITH A BUNCH
OF HANDS UP SO THAT'S ALL I
HAVE.
>> THANK YOU MARK.
I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THAT
DETAILED INFORMATION VERY
ENCOURAGING ESPECIALLY ABOUT
THE BUS LANE LOADING PLATFORMS.
I THINK THOSE ARE PRETTY
EFFICIENT.
ONE QUESTION I DID HAVE BRIEFLY
FOR YOU ARE ANY OF THOSE
LOADING PLATFORMS ON ANY OF THE
LOCATIONS THAT YOU MENTIONED IN
YOUR PRESENTATION, ARE ANY
OF THEM GOING TO BE SHIELDED
FROM THE ELEMENTS IN TERMS
OF ARE THEY GOING TO HAVE
CANOPY'S OR BENCHES OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT?
>> THE PLATFORMS WILL NOT BE
SHIELDED ONLY BECAUSE FOR A
LACK OF SPACE AND IT WOULDN'T
BE ADA COMPLIANT IF FOR SOMEONE
IN A WHEELCHAIR TO MANEUVER
AROUND BUT ON THE SIDEWALK AREA
IN FRONT OF ANGEL THERE WILL BE
A SHELTER PROVIDED AND THEN
THERE IS A SHELTER OFF TO THE
SOUTH NEAR THE SOUTH UNIVERSITY
INTERSECTION THAT'S ER TODAY
THAT WILL REMAIN IN PLACE.
GOT IT.
OK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MARK
AT THIS TIME
.
ALL RIGHTY.
>> OK COMMISSIONER SELIM.
YEAH JUST A REAL QUICK QUESTION
AND THANK YOU FOR THE
THOROUGHNESS WITH WHICH YOU
NARRATED THESE MANY UPCOMING
CHANGES.
WHAT ABOUT VEHICLES THAT
PROVIDE TRANSPORTATION FOR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES?
THEY WILL BE TREATED LIKE
REGULAR VEHICLES.
>> WILL THEY HAVE ACCESS TO THE
BIKE SORRY THE BUS LINE ONCE
CONSTRUCTION IS COMPLETED,
CORRECT?
>> YEAH.
UNDER THESE KIND OF NEW
PARAMETERS.
WELL, I I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER
TO YOUR QUESTION AS FAR AS HOW
THAT WOULD PLAY OUT, I I THINK
IT'S WORTHY OF DISCUSSION AND
HOW CAN SOMEONE WITH A
DISABILITY BEING DROPPED OFF
THROUGH TRANSPORT TO BE ABLE TO
GET THERE?
>> I IT'S A GREAT QUESTION AND
I DON'T HAVE A AN ANSWER FOR
YOU AT THIS TIME.
WOULD YOU MIND SORT OF BRINGING
THAT FORWARD IN WHATEVER FORUM
THAT THAT MAY COME UP IN JUST
TO ISSUE THAT I THINK IS WORTH
CONSIDERING AS YOU SAY?
>> YEAH, I AGREE WITH YOU AND I
WILL MAKE A NOTE OF THAT AND
PASS IT ALONG TO PEOPLE FOR
FURTHER CONSIDERATION AND
DELIBERATION.
SOLOMON, IF I COULD GET A
LITTLE BIT A CLARIFICATION ARE
YOU REFERRING TO TRANSIT
SERVICES THROUGH THE RIDE?
THERE'S A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
ENTITIES AND INCLUDING AN
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE SYSTEM THAT
PROVIDES TRANSPORTATION TO
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT PROVIDERS
OF WHICH YOU ALLUDE TO ONE.
SO MY CURIOSITY IS WILL THOSE
HAVE ANY ACCESS TO SOME
OF THESE KIND OF PRIVILEGED
LANES?
WELL, WE'LL CONSIDER THE
PRACTICAL RAMIFICATIONS OF THAT
AND HOW WE CAN EFFECTIVELY SIGN
AND WE'LL GET BACK TO YOU ON.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER PACARD
.
>> YEAH, JUST A QUICK QUESTION
AND THIS IS ALSO WITH OUR
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT IN
GENERAL BUT STEPS THAT ARE
BEING IMPLEMENTED OR DO THEY
HAVE TRASH CANS FOR THOSE WHO
ARE STOPPING INCLUDED?
I'M ONLY ASKING BECAUSE I JUST
NOTICED IN THE PAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS I HAVE A GUIDE DOG AND
WHEN YOU GO TO A STOP AND IT
DOESN'T HAVE A TRASH CAN AND
YOU HAVE A DOG THAT YOU TO BAG
SOMETHING UP AND THERE'S NO
PLACE TO DEPOSITED AT THE STOP,
OF COURSE YOU DON'T WANT TO PUT
IT ON THE BUS ON JUST SOMETHING
I THOUGHT I'D THROW OUT AS AN
IDEA FOR THESE AND ANY OTHER
STEPS MOVING FORWARD I THOUGHT
I'D ASK WHILE WE DISCUSSING
THIS.
>> YEAH, SOMEONE WALKS MY DOG.
I REALLY APPRECIATE WHAT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
>> YEAH, IT'S I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE PLANS ARE FOR YOU OF AN
EIGHT TO FOUR DAYS BUT I WILL
DEFINITELY ASK THEM.
>> THANK WELCOME.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I'M LIMITED TO ONE MORE
QUESTION BEFORE WE MOVE ON ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MARKET THIS
TIME
I JUST WANT TO SAY I
REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THE
THOROUGH INFORMATION IN YOU
COMING HERE.
>> IT'S REALLY HELPFUL.
SO THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
YEAH.
THANK YOU MARK.
VERY ENCOURAGING TO SEE SO
APPRECIATE ALL YOUR EFFORTS.
>> OK, WELL DO YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS ALONG THE WAY?
MY NAME AND CHRIS HIS NAME IS
ON THE WEBSITE AND HAPPY TO
ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS AS THEY
COME ALONG.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, MARK.
AND YOU KNOW IF THERE ARE ANY
THINGS THAT YOU GUYS DURING
CONSTRUCTION OR DIRT DURING
THIS PROCESS, YOU KNOW, KIND
OF COME ABOUT AND HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY
ARE DIFFERENT THINGS TO
INCORPORATE PLEASE DON'T
HESITATE TO REACH OUT.
OK, UNDERSTOOD.
AND THANK YOU FOR THAT
OPPORTUNITY.
YEP.
I THINK HASHTAG THANK YOU TO
MARK.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO OUR NEXT
PRESENTATION WE HAVE THE
WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND
AND PRINT DISABLED WITH KATIE
MOSCOVITCH KATIE GOOD AFTERNOON
.
>> HELLO.
HI EVERYBODY.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
I HAVE SOME UPCOMING EVENTS
HAPPENING IN THE LIBRARY TO
TELL YOU ABOUT.
FIRST OF ALL, WE WANT YOU ALL
TO SAVE THE DAY WE HAVE VISIONS
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE COMING UP
NOT ON JUNE 4TH BUT WE'RE
ALREADY PLANNING IT.
IT'S GOING TO BE FROM 11:00
A.M. TO FOUR P.M. AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE VISIONS
VENDOR FAIR FEATURES A VARIETY
OF EXHIBITORS WHO WILL
DEMONSTRATE THE LATEST PRODUCTS
AND SERVICES FOR THE BLIND
VISUALLY IMPAIRED AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
ELECTRONIC READERS MAGNIFY OUR
SUPPORT SERVICES FOR THE BLIND
BRAILLE DEVICES, LIBRARY
SERVICES CCTV LEADER DOGS AND
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES ARE
JUST A FEW OF THE MANY
OUTSTANDING SERVICES AND
PRODUCTS THAT WILL BE ON
DISPLAY.
PRESENTATIONS WILL BE ALSO BE
OFFERED ON TOPICS RELATED TO
VISION, HEALTH SERVICES AND
ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY AND I
WANTED TO LET YOU ALL KNOW THAT
IF YOU IF YOUR ORGANIZATION
DOES WANT TO REGISTER TO HAVE A
TABLE AT VISIONS 20 25 YOU
SHOULD DO SO SOON WE OPEN
REGISTRATION ABOUT ALMOST TWO
WEEKS AGO AND SPACE IS LIMITED
AND FILLING UP QUICKLY.
WE ALSO HAVE SORRY GO AHEAD.
JUST WHAT WE'VE GOT COMING UP
MORE IN THE IN COMING MONTHS OR
SO.
I KNOW THAT ONE'S NOT FOR A
WHILE.
WE'VE GOT A COUPLE OF THINGS
COMING UP THAT I WANTED TO TELL
YOU ABOUT.
WE HAVE AN AUTHOR EVENT MALLORY
MCMORROW.
SHE'S GOING TO BE TALKING ABOUT
HER BOOK HATE WON'T WIN ON
MONDAY, MARCH 24TH AT SIX
THIRTY PM AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY.
MALORIE MCMORROW IS COMING TO
THE LIBRARY JUST TO DISCUSS HER
NEW BOOK HATE WON'T WIN.
FIND YOUR POWER AND LEAVE THIS
PLACE BETTER THAN YOU FOUND IT.
SHE'LL BE JOINING CONVERSATION
BY BARBARA MCQUADE, AUTHOR
OF ATTACK FROM WITHIN
MALLORY
MCMORROW DETAILS HER UNLIKELY
JOURNEY INTO POLITICS WITH A
FRONT ROW SEAT TO DEMOCRACY AT
ITS BREAKING POINT THEN
OUTLINES THE TANGIBLE PROVEN
STEPS THAT ANYONE CAN TAKE TO
BUILD COMMUNITY FIGHT FOR
WHAT'S RIGHT AND CREATE REAL
AND LASTING CHANGE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH LITERATI
BOOKSTORE AND WILL INCLUDE A
SIGNING WITH BOOKS FOR SALE AND
THE LIBRARY DOES INTEND TO
PROVIDE A LIVE STREAM OF THIS
EVENT PENDING THE PRESENTERS
PERMISSION TO CHECK THE EVENT
PAGE CLOSER TO THE EVENT FOR
ADDITIONAL UPDATES ON HOW TO
ACCESS THAT.
THEN WE HAVE A POPULAR EVENT
THAT'S REOCCURRING.
THIS ONE ALWAYS ATTRACTS THE
CROWD.
IT'S CALLED HELLO MY NAME IS
THE NAME CHANGE CLINIC.
THIS IS ON FRIDAY, MARCH 28TH
AT FIVE THIRTY PM AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY YOU CAN JOIN
THE GYM COMMUNITY CENTERS
OUTREACH AND OUTLAW'S AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FOR A
FREE CLINIC DEDICATED TO
ADDRESSING THE CHALLENGES
OF NAME CHANGES FOR TRANSGENDER
AND GENDER NONCONFORMING
PEOPLE.
THEY WILL PROVIDE DETAILS ON
HOW TO LEGALLY CHANGE YOUR NAME
AND GENDER MARKER IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
INFORMATION ON HOW TO UPDATE
YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY DRIVER'S
LICENSE AND BIRTH CERTIFICATE
WILL ALSO BE AVAILABLE.
LEGAL VOLUNTEERS WILL BE ON
SITE AFTER THE PRESENTATION TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS AND ASSIST
WITH FORMS.
AND IF YOU'RE UNABLE TO ATTEND
THIS ONE YOU CAN FIND A
SLIDESHOW FOR THE EVENT THAT
HAS A LOT OF INFORMATION AND ON
THE EVENT PAGE ON THE ADL
WEBSITE AND WE HAVE THE
NEUROSCIENCE OF SPEECH AND
LANGUAGE FROM DEVELOPMENT TO
DISORDERS TACKLING MYTHS AND
MISCONCEIVE ABOUT STUTTERING AN
UPDATED NEUROSCIENTIFIC
UNDERSTANDING OF A COMPLEX
CHILDHOOD ONSET SPEECH DISORDER
.
THIS ONE IS ON TUESDAY, APRIL
8TH AT SIX THIRTY PM AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AND THIS ONE
TALKS ABOUT HOW STUTTERING IS
AN OFTEN MISUNDERSTOOD
CONDITION FROM RESEARCH TO
HOLLYWOOD.
THIS TALK WILL DISCUSS MYTHS
AND CURRENT RESEARCH IN TERMS
OF HOW STUTTERING MAY OCCUR AND
HOW STUTTERING IS TREATED.
PARTICIPANTS CAN EXPECT TO
LEARN ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS SUCH
AS DO CHILDREN
SIMPLY GROW OUT
OF STUTTERING OR AS SOMEONE WHO
STUTTER IS SIMPLY ANXIOUS.
THE LAB'S RECENT FINDINGS FROM
FOLLOWING UP WITH PREVIOUS
RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS WILL BE
DISCUSSED TO ELUCIDATE THE
INTRICACIES OF RECOVERY FROM
STUTTERING THE PRESENTER SHANLY
TREE LEVERNE IS A POSTDOCTORAL
RESEARCH FELLOW AND SPEECH
NEUROFOCUS PHYSIOLOGY LAB AND
THEN AS A CERTIFIED SPEECH
LANGUAGE PATHOLOGIST SHE
RECEIVED HER PHD FROM LOUISIANA
STATE UNIVERSITY AND COMPLETED
HER CLINICAL TRAINING AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA.
HER RESEARCH INCLUDES TIMING
OF NEURAL FUNCTIONING FOR
INDIVIDUALS WHO STUTTER AS WELL
AS MORE CLINICAL FOCUSED
PROJECTS SUCH AS RECOVERY AND
PERSISTENCE OF STUTTERING AND
LINGUISTIC ASPECTS.
>> STUTTERING RIGHT TO TALK
ABOUT SOME LIBRARY MATERIALS
ALL OF OUR PATRONS ARE WELCOME
TO ORDER DIGITAL CARTRIDGES OR
ASK US ANY QUESTIONS OR OTHER
MATERIALS BY CALLING SEVEN
THREE FOUR THREE TWO SEVEN FOUR
TWO TWO FOUR OR YOU CAN ALWAYS
EMAIL US AT W BP D AT A A DELTA
ORG AND THEN WE ENCOURAGE
EVERYBODY TO SIGN UP FOR THE
BRAYLON AUDIO READING SERVICE
ALSO CALLED BAADE WHERE YOU CAN
DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS, YOU
CAN FILL OUT AN APPLICATION IF
YOU'RE ALREADY A PATRON AND
I'LL BE A D ALOSI GOVEY OR YOU
CAN JUST CALL US AND WE CAN
HELP YOU GET SIGNED UP.
HERE ARE SOME NEW BOOKS THAT
YOU CAN FIND IF YOU'RE ON VADE
THE FIVE RESETS REWIRE YOUR
BRAIN AND BODY FOR LESS STRESS
AND MORE RESILIENCE BY A ARUCA
DR. NARIKA ILLUMINATES OUR
EVERYDAY ATTEMPTS AT BEING
RESILIENT LIKE MULTITASKING,
SLEEPING LESS AND UNDERGOING
HUGE LIFESTYLE OVERHAULS AREN'T
BENEFITS ARE NOT BENEFICIAL TO
OUR STRESSED BRAINS.
INSTEAD SHE PRESCRIBES
PRACTICAL REAL WORLD SOLUTIONS
FOR OUR MODERN DAY PERILS THAT
ARE TIME EFFICIENT, COST FREE
AND CAN BE APPLIED TO ANYONE'S
LIFE INCLUDING FOLLOWING THE
RESILIENCE RULE OF TWO MAKING
NO MORE THAN TWO CHANGES AT A
TIME BECAUSE DOING MORE IS
UNSUSTAINABLE.
ACCEPTING THAT MULTITASKING IS
A MYTH, OUR BRAINS ARE WIRED TO
DO ONE THING AT A TIME AND
DOCTORING HER BOOK AND THEN
CREATING BOUNDARIES TO HONOR
OUR BRAINS NEED FOR CALM
COMPARTMENTALIZATION THE FIVE
MINDSET SHIFTS ALONG WITH
FIFTEEN PROVEN TECHNIQUES OFFER
YOU A ROADMAP TO CHANGE YOUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH STRESS.
BRING YOUR BIOLOGY BACK INTO
BALANCE AND FEEL CALMER RIGHT
NOW AND THIS ONE SOUNDS VERY
INTERESTING TO ME.
IT'S CALLED THE WORTH OF WATER
OUR STORY OF CHASING SOLUTIONS
TO THE WORLD'S GREATEST
CHALLENGE AND THIS IS BY GARY
WHITE AND MATT DAMON.
ON ANY GIVEN MORNING YOU MIGHT
WAKE UP AND SHOWER WITH WATER,
MAKE YOUR COFFEE WITH WATER,
FLUSH YOUR TOILET WITH WATER
AND THINK NOTHING OF IT.
BUT AROUND THE WORLD MORE THAN
THREE QUARTERS OF A BILLION
PEOPLE CAN'T DO ANY OF THAT
BECAUSE THEY HAVE NO CLEAN
WATER SOURCE NEAR THEIR HOMES
AND ONE POINT SEVEN BILLION
DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO A TOILET.
THIS CRISIS AFFECTS A THIRD
OF THE PEOPLE ON THE PLANET.
IT KEEPS KIDS OUT OF SCHOOL AND
WOMEN OUT OF WORK.
IT TRAPS PEOPLE IN EXTREME
POVERTY.
IT SPREADS DISEASE.
>> IT'S ALSO SOLVABLE THAT
CONVICTION IS WHAT BROUGHT
TOGETHER MOVIE ACTOR MATT DAMON
AND WATER EXPERT AND ENGINEER
GARY WHITE.
THEY SPENT YEARS GETTING THE
ANSWER WRONG THEN HALFWAY RIGHT
THEN ALMOST RIGHT OVER TIME
THEY AND THEIR ORGANIZATION
WATERDOG HAVE FOUND AN APPROACH
THAT WORKS WORKING WITH
PARTNERS ACROSS EAST AFRICA,
LATIN AMERICA, SOUTH ASIA AND
SOUTHEAST ASIA.
THEY'VE HELPED OVER FORTY
MILLION PEOPLE ACCESS WATER AND
OR SANITATION IN THE WORTH
OF WATER.
GARY AND MATT TAKE US ALONG ON
THE JOURNEY TELLING STORIES AS
THEY UNCOVER INSIGHTS, TRY OUT
NEW IDEAS AND TRAVEL BETWEEN
THE COMMUNITIES THEY SERVE AND
THE HALLS OF POWER WHERE
DECISIONS GET MADE WITH HUMOR
AND HUMILITY, THEY ILLUMINATE
THE CHALLENGES OF LAUNCHING A
BRAND NEW MODEL WITH EXTREMELY
HIGH STAKES, BETTER HEALTH AND
GREATER PROSPERITY FOR PEOPLE
ALL OVER THE WORLD.
THE WORTH OF WATER INVITES US
TO BECOME A PART OF THIS EFFORT
TO MATCH HOPE WITH RESOURCES TO
EMPOWER FAMILIES AND
COMMUNITIES AND TO END THE
GLOBAL WATER CRISIS FOR GOOD.
AND THAT IS WHAT I HAVE FOR YOU
ALL TODAY.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY COMMENTS
OR QUESTIONS FOR ME?
>> MATTHEW SOLOMON, PLEASE GO
AHEAD.
THANKS, KATIE.
COULD YOU REPEAT THE TITLE
OF THE NEXT TO THE LAST THING
YOU MENTIONED?
IT WAS FIVE SUGGESTIONS
MINDSET'S YEAH.
IT'S THE FIVE RESETS REWIRE
YOUR BRAIN AND BODY FOR LESS
STRESS AND MORE RESILING AND
THE AUTHOR OF THAT BOOK IS NOT
AUTHOR IS ADT A D I T I AND I'M
NOT SURE IF I'M SAYING HER LAST
NAME RIGHT BUT NERIKA AND E ARE
YOU ARE A A R THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
GO AHEAD ZACK.
YEAH.
HEY THANKS SO MUCH KADIAN SORRY
FOR FOR INTERRUPTING YOU A
LITTLE BIT THERE EARLIER.
NO PROBLEM.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I DID
GET THE REGISTRATION FORM I
JUST SUBMITTED IT YOU GUYS SO
OH YOU KNOW WHAT ABOUT IT'S IN
MY INBOX AT IKEA SO YEAH YOU'RE
GOOD TO GO SO THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
NOW PLEASE NOTE I WASN'T SURE
YOU GUYS OF THE NUMBER THAT WE
HAVE BUT THEY DO HAVE AN OPTION
FOR LIKE FOUR PARTICIPANTS.
I DID SELECT THREE SO THE NAMES
THAT I DID PUT IN JUST FOR
TRANSPARENCY THE APPLICATION
MYSELF OUR VICE CHAIR LARRY
GELLER HOPEFULLY YOU CAN MAKE
IT AND COMMISSIONER ROB PACKARD
WHO I KNOW HAS BEEN A LONG TIME
ATTENDEE OF VISIONS.
BUT IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ATTEND TO FILL THAT FOURTH
SPOT, PLEASE DON'T HESITATE TO
LET MYSELF OR KENNEDY AND I CAN
LET THE LIBRARY KNOW AS WELL.
>> YEAH, WE CAN MAKE CHANGES TO
THAT.
SO IT'S GOOD YOU'VE RESERVED
YOUR SPOT NOW AND THEN IF YOU
NEED TO MAKE UPDATES JUST LET
US KNOW AND WE'LL TAKE CARE
OF IT.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH KATIE AND
YEAH WHAT A WHAT A FASCINATING
BOOK ABOUT ABOUT WATER AND
WATER DAWG DOING A LOT OF GREAT
WORK BECAUSE IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR KATIE.
>> RIGHT WELL THANK YOU AS
ALWAYS KATIE.
SO WE APPRECIATE.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
HAVE A GREAT DAY.
ABSOLUTELY.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE REPORTS THE
DISABILITY NETWORK WASHTENAW
MONROE LIVINGSTON WITH ANDREA.
>> ANDREA, HOW ARE YOU?
GOOD AFTERNOON.
I AM WELL ENJOYING THIS LOVELY
WEATHER TODAY.
WHY DON'T YOU BRING SOME
HIGHLIGHTS UPCOMING ACTIVITIES
THROUGH FAKE SPRING AND REAL
SPRING AND HOPEFULLY EVEN ONE
INTO SUMMER FOR YOU TODAY WE
STILL HAVE SPOTS AND
REGISTRATION AVAILABLE FOR OUR
CAMP HORIZONS AND NIGHT WHICH
IS HAPPENING A WEEK FROM TODAY
WEDNESDAY MARCH TWENTY SIX FROM
SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY AT OUR IN
OUR ARBOR OUR OFFICE.
IT IS A SUMMER DAY CAMP FOR
YOUTH WITH DISABILITIES AGES
FOURTEEN TO TWENTY SIX.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO MEET THE
CAMP COUNSELORS TOUR THE SPRING
AND ALL ABOUT THE CAMPS THAT
ARE HAPPENING THIS SUMMER.
REGISTRATION CAN BE ACHIEVED BY
CALLING OUR OFFICE AT SEVEN
THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO
TWO SEVEN SEVEN.
WE ALSO HAVE A SPRING ARTS EXPO
COMING JOIN FOR AN
UNFORGETTABLE EVENING AT
DISABILITY NETWORK AND THE ANN
ARBOR OFFICE.
WE WILL BRING TOGETHER A
DYNAMIC BY THE VISUAL ART,
LITERATURE, THEATER AND DANCE
IN ONE VIBRANT CELEBRATION
OF CREATIVITY THURSDAY APRIL
SIX TO EIGHT P.M. ET THE
DISABILITY NETWORK OFFICE IN
ANN ARBOR DREAMY DELIGHTS, ICE
CREAM NIGHT PAJAMAS, TASTY
TRIVIA AND FUN GAMES JUST
EIGHTEEN PLUS REGISTRATION
REQUIRED AGAIN BY CALLING SEVEN
THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO
TWO SEVEN SEVEN MONDAY APRIL
TWENTY FIRST FROM FOUR TO SIX
P.M. AT WASHTENAW CELEBRATE
SPRING WITH ICE CREAM AND LIGHT
SNACKS COME RELAX IN YOUR
PAJAMAS A LOUNGEWEAR AND HANG
OUT WITH FOLKS FOR A GOOD TIME
APRIL TWENTY THIRD AND TWENTY
FOURTH WHICH IS A WEDNESDAY AND
A THURSDAY IS THE FIFTH ANNUAL
NOTHING ABOUT US WITHOUT US
FILM FESTIVAL IN COLLABORATION
WITH OUR SISTER NETWORK AT
SOUTHWEST MICHIGAN.
MORE DETAILS ABOUT MOVIES AND
EVENTS ON THAT COMING SOON.
TYPICALLY THAT IS A VIRTUAL
EVENT THAT IS AVAILABLE THROUGH
ZOOME MORE DETAILS COMING JUST
BEFORE THE EVENT AT NEXT
MONTH'S MEETING AND FINALLY
AGAIN SAVE THE DAY FOR ABAY
CELEBRATION THIS SUMMER OF THE
30 YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF THE
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
TAKING PLACE ON SATURDAY, JULY
TWENTY SIX FROM NOON TO FIVE AT
OUR IN OUR OFFICE FREE FOOD FUN
ACTIVITIES AND SPIERINGS EKERS
COMMUNITY RESOURCES AND MUCH
MORE AS WE CELEBRATE THE
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ABA TO LEARN
ABOUT ALL OF THESE EVENTS AND
MORE AGAIN YOU CAN GIVE OUR
OFFICE A CALL AT SEVEN THREE
FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO
TO
SEVEN SEVEN EMAIL US AT INFO
GMW EMAIL THAT OR OR CHECK OUT
OUR WEBSITE N.W. MOUTHGUARD AND
THAT'S ALL I HAVE TODAY.
IF ANYBODY HAS ANY QUESTION I
DON'T HAVE A QUESTION.
I JUST HAVE A COMMENT.
I MEAN DREAMY DELIGHT MY
GOODNESS.
OH YOU I'M A HUGE ICE CREAM FAN
ONE OF MY FAVORITE DESSERTS I
DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU GUYS
SOUNDS LIKE THE PERFECT EVENT
TO KICK SPRING OFF.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
MONDAY APRIL TWENTY FIRST OR
THE SIX.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN YES NOTHING ABOUT US
WITHOUT US FILM FESTIVAL VERY
EXCITED ABOUT THAT YOU GUYS I
WILL BE IF YOU'VE NOT
REGISTERED FOR THAT I'LL ALSO
SEND OUT THE REGISTRY
OF REGISTRATION FORMS SO PEOPLE
CAN SIGN UP.
I DID LOOK AT THE PROGRAM.
I JUST WANT TO PLUG IT SAY IT
LOOKS VERY, VERY AMAZING.
INTERESTING AND YOU KNOW I'VE
ATTENDED THIS FESTIVAL THE LAST
FEW YEARS AND I JUST WANT TO
SAY SUPER REWARDING.
I REALLY ENJOY THE DIALOG AFTER
REVIEWING THE FILMS, BEING ABLE
TO CONNECT WITH EVERYONE AND
TALK ABOUT THE IMPORTANT ISSUES
THAT THE NOTHING ABOUT US ABOUT
AS FILM FESTIVAL REALLY BRINGS
TO THE FOREFRONT OF THOUGHT
THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF FILM.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH TO THE
DISABILITY NETWORK FOR
CONTINUING TO PUT THE NOTHING
ABOUT US WITHOUT HIS FILM
FESTIVAL ON I BELIEVE IT'S ITS
FIFTH YEAR RIGHT ANDREA?
YES, YES.
THANK YOU ZACH FOR PROMOTING IT
BETTER THAN I JUST DID.
SO WE APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT
AND INVOLVEMENT IN THAT AS WELL
.
>> SO ABSOLUTELY.
THANK AWESOME.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR ANDREA
AT THIS TIME?
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANKS.
HAVE A GREAT DAY.
NO ON NEXT WE HAVE OUR PARTNERS
AND ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT
WITH VICE CHAIR LARRY KEILLER
ANNUAL MEETING LAST FRANKLY ALL
I CALLED IN AND APPARENTLY I
HAD BEEN THE ONLY ONE THAT
CALLED IN.
I COULDN'T SEEM TO GET THROUGH
BUT APPARENTLY I'D BEEN THE
ONLY ONE THAT HAD CALLED IN.
AND LATER ON THAT EVENING
KENNEDY SAID NOBODY ELSE CALLED
HERE SO WE DID NOT HAVE A
MEETING.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF THAT TO BE
DISCUSSED NEXT MEETING THAT ARE
COMING OUT WELL, TALK ABOUT I
GOT A COUPLE OF THINGS I PUT
OUT OUR AGENDA ABOUT GETTING
INTO THE BATHROOM, THE
ACCESSIBLE BATHROOMS AND
COMMISSIONER PACKARD SENT ME
SOMETHING ABOUT A WOMAN IS
WANTING TO GET A PASS HERE.
THERE'S A WAY YOU CAN GET A
PASS CUT THROUGH FROM WHERE SHE
LIVES TO OR TO WORK FOR THE
BUSHES.
I MEAN IS THAT THAT OTHER THAN
THAT PLEASE COME NEXT MONTH IN
THE MEETING IF IF YOU CAN
BECAUSE WE'VE HAD VERY WELL
AGAINST THE LAST COUPLE
OF MONTHS AND WE COULD WE COULD
USE TO COME OUT AND I DON'T
KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON BUT WE'VE
HAD VERY LOW ATTENDANCE IN THE
THEY MADE IT VERY WELL.
>> WE'RE NONE SURE.
AND LARRY, THANK YOU FOR GIVING
THAT FEEDBACK ON PARTNERS AND
ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE.
YOU KNOW, I CAN TELL YOU THAT
ONE OF THE REASONS PERSONALLY
I'M NOT PRESENT IS BECAUSE I
HAVE A STANDING MEETING ON THAT
PARTICULAR DAY AND TIME WHICH
WHICH I BELIEVE I'VE
COMMUNICATED TO THE COMMISSION
BUT BUT I'M DEFINITELY THERE
AND IN SPIRIT AND AND I'M SORRY
TO HEAR I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I
WANT TO KNOW REALLY QUICKLY
FROM THE COMMISSION ARE ARE
THERE THINGS THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
CAN DO AS A COMMISSION TO, YOU
KNOW, KIND OF HELP WITH
PARTICIPATION OF THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE?
IS IT THAT THERE ARE NOT A LOT
OF AGENDA ITEMS REALLY TO
COVER , LARRY, OR WHAT'S YOUR
WHAT DO YOU WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> OH, THE WHAT WE DO HAVE A
FEW AGENDA ITEMS MAYBE MAYBE WE
CAN MOVE BACK TO WEDNESDAY
AGAINST THE NEWS THAT I COULD
ATTEND ISN'T HAPPENING ANYMORE.
>> SO WE CAN EITHER MOVE THE
MEETING BACK IN ANOTHER TIME IF
DAY WHERE PEOPLE NEED TO OR OR
MAYBE MAYBE SOMEBODY ELSE NEEDS
TO CHAIR THE MEETING WHO KNOWS
?
WELL, I YEAH I DON'T KNOW I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S YOU KNOW
ABOUT SOMEBODY ELSE LIKE FIVE
MILES ACROSS TOWN TO GET HERE
ON THURSDAY.
THEY DON'T WANT TO GET THERE.
>> I'D GO IN AND I KNOW I KNOW
ONE OF OUR REGULAR PEOPLE WAS
ONCE IT'S GOING TO BE THERE
THEY ACTUALLY LET ME KNOW
YOU'RE SAYING YOU SHOWED UP TO
CITY HALL LIKE IN PERSON FOR
THE MEETING AND THEN YOU FOUND
OUT IT WASN'T BOYS THAT NO
MATTER SERVE AT CITY HALL FOR
THAT.
I MEAN THAT WAS A MEETING TO
WRITE OK, I DO EVERYTHING I DO.
I I DO THINGS ACROSS TOWN ON
THURSDAY SO WELL I WAS THERE I
DO THINGS ACROSS TOWN AND COME
BACK AND GO GET ON.
>> YEAH SO ON.
>> YEAH I DON'T KNOW MAYBE
SWITCHING IT BACK TO WEDNESDAY
MIGHT BE BETTER OR FINDING A
BETTER TIME WHERE PEOPLE CAN
ATTEND.
YEAH I MEAN I WANT US ALL TO BE
OPEN ABOUT IT YOU KNOW IN TERMS
OF THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE I MEAN OBVIOUSLY
ALL OF US ARE VERY VERY BUSY.
WE ALL HAVE YOU KNOW OUR JOBS
WORK SCHOOL, ALL KINDS
OF DIFFERENT THINGS, YOU KNOW,
IN CONJUNCTION WITH, YOU KNOW,
BEING COMMISSIONER.
SO YEAH, LARRY, YOU KNOW, I'M
NOT SURE I MEAN I'D BE
INTERESTED TO GET OTHER
FEEDBACK FROM OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WHAT CAN BE
HELPFUL IN TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
GAINING MORE PARTICIPATION IN
THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE THIS THIS IS
RACHEL I I WOULD SAY THAT I I
THINK IT'S BEEN THE THURSDAY
IT'S BEEN HARDER COMPARED TO
DOING THE SECOND ONE STAY JUST
IN TERMS OF KIND OF MY MY WORK
SCHEDULE.
IT JUST I OFTEN END UP HAVING
PATIENTS ON SO I WOULD SAY THAT
WEDNESDAY HAD HAD WORKED BETTER
IN THE PAST.
>> I KNOW THAT HADN'T WORKED
FOR LARRY RECENTLY.
I KNOW I HAD TRIED TO JOIN LAST
THURSDAY AND I WAS THE ONLY ONE
IN THE VIDEO WAS IT.
IT DIDN'T START IT SAID LIKE IS
WAITING TO JOIN SO I DIDN'T I
DON'T KNOW IF I HAVE THE WRONG
LINK.
SO IT WAS JUST THE THE ONE THAT
SHOWED UP ON MY CALENDAR FOR
LAST WEEK.
>> OK, SO I STAYED ON FOR
PROBABLY AT LEAST TEN MINUTES
BUT IT NEVER STARTED SO I DON'T
KNOW IF I JUST HAD THE WRONG
LINK.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE I DID NOT GET
MAYBE THAT ARGUMENT ABOUT IT.
KENNEDY FINALLY I TALKED TO GOD
AND IT JUST THAT LIKE IT WAS
THE MEETING IS WAITING TO START
BUT IT DIDN'T DIDN'T GO THROUGH
FOR SOME REASON.
SO BUT I WOULD SAY IN GENERAL
THAT THE ONE STAYS THE SECOND
ONE IS HAD HAD WORKED A LOT
BETTER AND I THINK I WAS BETTER
ABLE TO ATTEND WHEN IT WAS THE
WEDNESDAY ON THURSDAY.
SO A LITTLE MORE SQUASHED IN
TERMS OF MY SCHEDULE.
>> SO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF YOU
GO BACK TO WEDNESDAY ABOUT A WE
COULD GO BACK TO WEDNESDAY THAT
WOULD HELP ME TO NOT BE TOO
RIGHT AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING WE CAN DEFINITELY
DISCUSS.
I'D LIKE TO PUT IT ON THE
AGENDA FOR OUR NEXT MEETING.
WE CAN KIND OF DISCUSS, YOU
KNOW, CHANGING THE TIME AND IF
WE REALLY BELIEVE THAT THAT'LL
THAT'LL WORK.
COMMISSIONER PACARD.
>> OH, I WAS JUST GOING TO MAKE
A MOTION IF THAT'S IN ORDER
THAT WE MOVE IT UP THAT SEEMS
TO BE THE BETTER DAY.
>> BUT IF YOU'D LIKE TO PUT IT
ON AN AGENDA, THAT'S FINE TOO.
>> OH NO.
I MEAN WE WOULD YEAH.
GO AHEAD.
I WOULD SEND AMONG PEOPLE I
WOULD SECOND THE MOTION OF I
THINK WE DO BECAUSE THREE OUT
OF FOUR OF THE ATTENDEES THE
PEOPLE I HAVE THE MOST ARE HERE
NOW SO OH GREAT MOMENT TO MOVE
IT TO WEDNESDAY'S SECOND
OF EACH MONTH I BELIEVE FOUR
O'CLOCK IS THAT THE START TIME
IT IS FIVE OH FIVE O'CLOCK
LOCAL TIME.
WE WOULD PROBABLY BE WELL YEAH
I MEAN IF YOU GUYS WANT TO VOTE
ON THAT NOW YOU KNOW I'M I'M
OPEN TO THAT IF EVERYONE'S
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT LIKE I
DID SECOND ITSELF.
OK, SO ROB, YOU MADE A MOTION
THEN TO CHANGE THE DATE OF THE
PARTNERS AND A SUBCOMMITTEE
MEETING.
>> YES.
OK, LARRY, YOU SECONDED IT SO
THAT MEANS THAT OK, SO THEN
JUST TO CLARIFY IT WOULD BE THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING WOULD THEN
BE MOVED TO WHAT DAY WEDNESDAY
IT WOULD SET THEM UP OK, WELL
WHAT IS THE SECOND ONE NEXT
MONTH THE CALENDAR INVITE DON'T
WORRY ABOUT THAT PART
.
IT JUST I JUST NEED A MOTION
BEFORE I UPDATE BECAUSE I'LL
HAVE TO CHANGE THE REST OF THE
WEDNESDAYS FOR THE REST OF THE
CALENDAR.
OK, SO ALL IN FAVOR OF CHANGING
THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING TO THE
SECOND WEDNESDAY OF THE MONTH
IF YOU GET ON MUTE AND SAY I OR
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS FEEL FREE
TO MENTION THEM NOW IS THAT
GOING TO BE FOR THE FIVE P.M.
TIME ON THE SECOND WEDNESDAY?
YES, I BELIEVE OK, I WAS AT THE
INTENSITY OF YOUR MOTION TO BE
FIVE OR I THINK THAT WORKS
BETTER FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE'S
WORK SCHEDULES PROBABLY SO I
THINK YEAH.
>> ALL THE SECOND WEDNESDAY AT
FIVE P.M. TO BE THE NEW TIME
OF THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING.
IF YOU ARE IN FAVOR OF THIS, IF
YOU COULD UNMUTED AND SAY AY I
AY AY OK HOPEFULLY THAT WILL
HELP AND HELP BOOST THE
ATTENDANCE OF THE PARTNERS
ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
GOING FORWARD.
ALL RIGHT.
ANYTHING ELSE IN PARTNERS AND
ACCESS?
>> LARRY KELLY?
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO A COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT REPORT WITH
COMMISSIONER RACHEL HAWKINS.
HEY, SO ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE HAD
A NEW SHOW THIS MONTH THAT'S
ALREADY POSTED ON THEIR YOUTUBE
WITH THE ANN ARBOR ACADEMY.
THEY'RE STILL WORKING ON
SCHEDULE FOR APRIL SHOW BUT WE
LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING WHAT
THEY HAVE PLANNED FOR APRIL.
>> SO MORE MORE NEWS TO COME ON
THAT'S IN.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE THE RECRUITING
ACTIVITY REPORT WITH LARRY CULA
AND I RECEIVED NO NO REVIEWS
FOR APPLICATIONS OR ANYTHING SO
WE HAVEN'T REALLY DONE
ANYTHING.
>> OK, I WILL DON'T GO
ANYWHERE, LARRY, BECAUSE WE
NEED YOU TO GIVE THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
UPDATE.
YOU HAVE SAID ONE OF A LOT
OF THOSE SOME INPUT FROM PUBLIC
INPUT FROM PUBLIC COMMENT ABOUT
IT AND GAVE KANSAS CITY GOOD
JOB.
I WOULD COMMENT ON KURBAN
CIDRAP CARBON CHECK CROQUETTE
INSIDE.
THEY SAID IT WAS GOOD A GOOD
JOB IT WAS THE WORK TALKING
ABOUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
COMING UP IS THE TALKING WITH
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
IS DR. AAPI AND OUR PUBLIC
SCHOOL AND WORKING FOR GRAVEL
SOUNDS SO SO THAT STUDENTS AND
OTHER PEOPLE ARE SAFE FOR
CREATING SAFER ZONES AND BETTER
GRAPPLE PLACES.
WHEN YOU GO TO THE SCHOOLS PICK
COPPER ARE ABOVE GELL-MANN AND
REVOLUTION FOR THE SCHOOL
CALLED THE REVOLUTION NOT A
REVOLUTION FOR THE SCHOOL.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE BASIC
TO COLLABORATE WITH THE SCHOOL
MAY BE AS THE PRESENTATION ON
SIDESTREETS AND THAT WAS
WORKING WITH VISION ZERO AND I
REALLY DIDN'T DIDN'T QUITE GET
THAT BUT IT'S IT'S MOVING ALONG
AND THEY WERE TELLING US HOW
THE LESSON DOESN'T SEEM TO
AFFECT US DIRECTLY AT THE
MOMENT.
BUT I'LL GIVE YOU A THING THAT
DOES AND I KNOW IT'S WE TALKED
ABOUT ALL KINDS OF STREET
RESURFACING PROJECTS COMING UP
FOR LATER ON THIS YEAR AND I'LL
GO INTO THOSE WHEN THEY START
ACTUALLY COMING AND THAT'S
WHERE THE WOMEN ARE.
ONE IS COMING UP SOON.
SO BUT THEY DIDN'T THEY WERE
JUST LETTING YOU KNOW THAT IT
WAS COMING UP.
SO I'M SURE THERE'S GOING TO BE
A LOT MORE QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT
ONE TONIGHT AND THE
TRANSPORTATION IS TONIGHT IT
SEEMS OF COMMISSION MEETING IS
TONIGHT AND YOU CAN ALSO I
SUGGEST AS WELL NO TO ATTEND
BUT YOU CALL IF YOU WANT TO
LOOK AT
OF SEEKING FOR THE
MEETING THEY GIVE YOU THEY GIVE
YOU THE INFORMATION TO ATTEND
IF YOU HAVE TO HAVE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THAT'S ALL I GOT RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR WORK AND
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
WE DO APPRECIATE NEXT WE HAVE
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS
MEETING UPDATE WITH
COMMISSIONER MATTHEW SOLOMON.
MATTHEW.
>> SO THE MEETING WENT AS
SCHEDULED, TURNED OUT TO BE THE
SHORTEST MEETING THAT I HAVE
ATTENDED THAT WAS DUE TO THE
GUESTS SPEAKER TURNS OUT AT THE
LAST MINUTE WAS AVAILABLE IS
WORKING TO RESCHEDULE.
SO IT ENDED UP BEING A VERY
SHORT MEETING WOULD HAVE BEEN
CANCELED IF THE CHAIR I HAD
GREATER NOTICE BUT THE MEETING
ADJOURNED TO SEVEN MINUTES
AFTER IT STARTED.
THERE'S NOT MUCH TO REPORT
FRANKLY.
OK, WELL THANK YOU THANK YOU
FOR ALL THE WORK THAT YOU DO
WITH THE COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY
CONCERNS.
I KNOW THEY'RE DOING A LOT
OF GOOD WORK THERE SO THANK YOU
FOR THE REPORT.
SO NEXT WE HAVE THE CHAIR
REPORT.
I DID WANT TO MENTION THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE HAVING THE
EVENTS OF SPECIAL OLYMPICS IS
GOING TO BE HOSTING A BIG EVENT
AT THE BIG HOUSE ON APRIL 5TH.
TICKETS ARE FREE AND THEY HOPE
TO HAVE A LOT OF SPECTATORS IN
THE STANDS FOR THIS PARTICULAR
EVENT.
YOU KNOW, THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS
COLLEGE AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN IS HOSTING THEIR
KIND OF FIRST ANNUAL UNIFIED
BIG HOUSE GAMES.
AGAIN, THIS WILL BE ON APRIL
5TH MICHIGAN STADIUM.
AND SO THEIR GOAL WITH THIS
EVENT IS TO BRING TOGETHER
SPECIAL OLYMPICS PROGRAMS FROM
VARIOUS SCHOOLS IN THE MIDWEST
FOSTERING A SENSE OF COMMUNITY
AND OFFERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
FUN ENVIRONMENT FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS IS
DEDICATED TO PROVIDING SPORTS
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL ABILITIES
AND SPREADING AWARENESS TO THE
POWER OF INCLUSION.
THERE'S THERE IS GOING TO BE
FIVE ROTATING ACTIVITIES
INCLUDING VOLLEYBALL, SOCCER,
FOOTBALL YARD GAMES AND ARTS
AND CRAFTS.
SO COLLEGES WILL PARTICIPATE IN
EACH STATION INTERACTING AND
PLAYING WITH DIFFERENT SCHOOLS
SO EVERYONE HAS THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ALSO MEET NEW PEOPLE.
THERE ARE SPECIAL OLYMPICS CLUB
WILL SERVE AS VOLUNTEERS WITH
DIFFERENT MICHIGAN STUDENT
ORGANIZATIONS HELPING OUT AS
WELL.
SO ULTIMATELY THEY WANT THEIR
MESSAGE TO BE CLEAR.
PEOPLE ALL ABILITIES DESERVE
OPPORTUNITIES IN SPORTS AND THE
UNIFIED GAMES AT THE BIG HOUSE
WILL BE A GROUNDBREAKING EVENT
THAT WILL CHAMPION INCLUSION IN
OUR MICHIGAN COMMUNITY.
ANNIKA ACROSS THE MIDWEST.
SO WE HOPE WE CAN HAVE A GOOD
SHOWING FROM THE COMMISSION AT
THE BIG HOUSE ON APRIL 5TH FROM
12 FIFTEEN TO FOUR P.M. AND
OF COURSE I WILL EMAIL THAT
INFORMATION TO ALL OF US SO
THAT WE CAN ATTEND.
ALSO I WOULD LIKE TO
CONGRATULATE OUR COUNCIL
MEMBER.
I DID ATTEND A PREMIERE ON THE
UNFORTUNATE STRUGGLE
OF HOMELESSNESS THAT PLAGUES
OUR COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
OUR COUNCIL MEMBER LIAISON WAS
A HUGE COMPONENT IN THAT
SCREENING AND IT WAS A VERY,
VERY IMPACTFUL FILM.
SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT
OUT TO COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI
EDWYN FOR ALL OF THEIR WORK
THERE AND BRINGING FORTH AN
IMPORTANT ISSUE OF HOMELESSNESS
AND HOW HOPEFULLY OUR
COMMUNITIES CAN BAND TOGETHER
TO HELP THOSE WHO ARE IN VERY
DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES
FINANCIALLY AND WITHOUT A HOME
AND WITH THAT BAND THE CHAIR
REPORT FOR THIS EVENING.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO OUR NEXT ITEM
OF THE AGENDA WHICH IS OLD
BUSINESS.
DO WE HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS
TODAY?
>> OK, ANY NEW BUSINESS
?
NO NEW BUSINESS.
OK, LET'S SEE
NEXT.
WE HAVE ONE MOMENT COMPUTERS
NOW FOR PROBABLY ANNOUNCEMENTS
.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
WE DO HAVE ANNOUNCEMENTS.
THANK YOU, LARRY SENEX.
WE HAVE ANY ANNOUNCEMENTS TODAY
OR COMMUNICATIONS RATHER FROM
OUR COMMISSION
.
>> OK, NO COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
SO AT FIVE THIRTY TWO IS THERE
.
A MOTION TO ADJOURN OUR
SO AT FIVE THIRTY TWO IS THERE
MEETING?
A MOTION TO ADJOURN OUR
>> I WOULD MOVE TO ADJOURN.
MEETING?
>> OH I THINK ALSO FOR A SECOND
>> I WOULD MOVE TO ADJOURN.
AND ALSO THE SECOND ACTIVITY OH
>> OH I THINK ALSO FOR A SECOND
OH OH OK.
AND ALSO THE SECOND ACTIVITY OH
ALL IN FAVOR OF ADJOURNING OUR
OH OH OK.
MEETING TODAY AT FIVE THIRTY
ALL IN FAVOR OF ADJOURNING OUR
TWO P.M. PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY
MEETING TODAY AT FIVE THIRTY
I I I I.
TWO P.M. PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY
>> OK WELL THANK YOU TO THE
I I I I.
CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO CITY AND
>> OK WELL THANK YOU TO THE
THE COMMUNITY TELEVISION
CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO CITY AND
NETWORK AND ALL OF YOU FOR YOUR
THE COMMUNITY TELEVISION
GREAT WORK TODAY.
NETWORK AND ALL OF YOU FOR YOUR
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND WE WILL
GREAT WORK TODAY.
SEE YOU IN APRIL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND WE WILL
THANK YOU